If his first term in the White House is any indication, President-elect Donald Trump is likely to keep the Middle East high on his agenda. Israel is at a “high level of readiness” for a response from Iran, an Israeli military source told CNN, as US officials visited the Middle East for a renewed push to resolve the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has promised a crushing response to Israel and the United States for actions against his country. Israel is at a “high level of readiness” for a response from Iran, an Israeli military source told CNN, as US officials visited the Middle East for a renewed push to resolve the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon. Follow live updates. American officials remain doubtful a final diplomatic push in the Middle East this week will result in a pause in fighting in Gaza before Tuesday’s US presidential election, according to people familiar with the thinking, as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin ... Top US officials are heading to the Middle East seeking progress on resolving the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon and to deter a further Iranian response to Israel. Follow live updates. Israel has passed a law banning the UN’s relief agency for Palestinians from operating in the country, in a move sharply criticized by multiple Western countries. Follow live updates here. At least 90 people were killed in northern Gaza on Tuesday after an Israeli airstrike hit a five-story building in the residential neighborhood of Beit Lahiya. At least 25 of them were children. CNN’s Katie Polglase reports on Israel’s intensifying bombing ... Israel’s military operations in northern Gaza killed dozens of Palestinians on the weekend, according to officials in the enclave, while ceasefire talks resumed in Qatar. Follow for live news updates. Israel’s military operations in northern Gaza killed dozens of Palestinians this weekend, according to officials in the enclave, while ceasefire talks resumed in Qatar. Follow for live news updates. Israel said on Saturday it had struck military targets inside Iran in response to earlier Iranian attacks, again raising fears that the long-running confrontation between the two powerful militaries could escalate into an all-out regional war that draws in the ... Fareed speaks with Ronen Bergman, staff writer at the New York Times Magazine, about what could come next after Israel’s strikes on Saturday targeting Iranian military sites. Israel launched direct strikes against Iran early Saturday, in a high-stakes retaliation to Tehran’s ballistic missile barrage earlier this month. Follow for live news updates. Ten days before the American presidential election, uncontrollable war in the Middle East appears to have been avoided for now, much to the relief of President Joe Biden’s aides at the White House and Vice President Kamala Harris’ campaign team ... After Israel’s attack on Iran Saturday, US officials were quick to caution both countries against perpetuating the cycle of violence, but analysts say lasting de-escalation is not a foregone conclusion. Several explosions were heard in Tehran, according to the Iranian semi-official Fars news agency. The semi-official Tasnim news agency reported that several explosions were heard west of the Iranian capital. The explosions come as the region has ... A meeting this weekend in Qatar is expected to restart the talks over a possible hostage and ceasefire deal in Gaza, a source told CNN. Hezbollah confirmed that Hashem Safieddine, a possible successor to the group’s late leader Hassan Nasrallah, was killed in an attack in Beirut. Follow for live news updates. Hashem Safieddine, a possible successor to late Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, was killed in an attack in Beirut about three weeks ago, along with other commanders, Israel’s military said Tuesday. Growing unease over the United States’ inability to de-escalate tensions in the Middle East is prompting some of Washington’s closest Arab allies to significantly increase engagement with its primary regional adversary: Iran. The Israeli military says it struck “over 3,200 terror targets” since ground operations started in southern Lebanon on October 1. About 300 were hit in the last 24 hours, the Israel Defense Forces said. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken departed Monday for Israel and other unspecified countries in the Middle East as the United States seeks to move forward on efforts to resolve the conflict in the wake of the killing of Hamas leader Yahya ... Israel has intensified its bombardment of northern Gaza, where it says Hamas was regrouping, while it continues to fight Hezbollah in Lebanon. Israel has met with scathing criticism from European leaders who are trying to restrain the Jewish state from pressing on with its wars in Gaza and southern Lebanon. Following Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar’s death in Gaza, Israel has continued to barrage the strip as it also targets Hezbollah in Lebanon. Follow for live news updates. Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar, believed to be an architect of the militant group’s deadly October 7, 2023, terror attack that set off the war in Gaza, was killed by Israeli forces. The US carried out a round of strikes in Yemen against the Iran-backed Houthis on Wednesday evening, according to Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, targeting five underground weapons storage facilities using B-2 stealth bombers. The US has carried out a round of strikes in Yemen against the Iran-backed Houthis, targeting underground weapons facilities. The United States has warned Israel it may stop supplying the country with weapons unless the humanitarian situation in Gaza improves. Hezbollah’s deputy secretary general called on Israelis to accept a ceasefire in Lebanon or face “pain,” suggesting it would ramp up attacks further south in Israel. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond tours southern Lebanon’s battlefield ground operation with Israeli military forces. Retired Israeli General Amos Yadlin talks to Christiane Amanpour about Israel’s war strategy in Gaza, Lebanon and Iran. Destruction in the Middle East continued Monday as tensions keep rising. Israeli strikes killed nearly 20 people in northern Lebanon and at least five people in Gaza, officials say. More than 60 people have been injured in a drone attack in Israel, according to first responders. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) did not release any details of the incident, saying only they had “intercepted” an unmanned aerial vehicle that was launched ... Randa Slim, conflict resolution director at the Middle East Institute, and Richard Haass, president emeritus at the Council on Foreign Relations, join Fareed to talk about Israel’s options for responding to Iran’s missile attack and the dangers of an ... The US will send an advanced anti-missile system — and US troops to operate it — to Israel “to help bolster Israel’s air defenses following Iran’s unprecedented attacks against Israel on April 13 and again on October 1,” the Pentagon said Sunday. Fareed talks with Richard Haass, president emeritus at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Randa Slim, conflict resolution director at the Middle East Institute, about the successes Israel has had against Hezbollah and the dangers of Israeli ... Iran has informed the United States that it will retaliate against any new attack by Israel, a source in Tehran told CNN. Iran’s government has also been engaging in urgent diplomatic efforts with countries in the Middle East to gauge whether it can ... Retired Admiral James Stavridis predicts the chances of a wider regional conflict in the Middle East and potential spike of global oil prices. Israel bombards northern Gaza as border clashes continue on the Lebanese border, and Iran issues a warning against any new Israeli attacks. Follow for live news updates. Iran’s government is extremely nervous and has been engaging in urgent diplomatic efforts with countries in the Middle East to gauge whether they can reduce the scale of Israel’s response to its missile attack earlier this month and – if that fails – help ... CNN’s Fred Pleitgen spoke to three Iranians who attended the Friday morning prayer and they gave harsh warnings to Israel amid escalating conflict. Russian President Vladimir Putin said he shares a “very close” worldview with his Iranian counterpart Masoud Pezeshkian, as the sanctioned leaders held a friendly inaugural meeting just as the Middle East braces for Israel’s response to Tehran’s ... Two Israeli airstrikes hit central Beirut in an attack that leveled an entire residential building, a Lebanese security source told CNN. CNN’s Ben Wedeman has the details. Air France has opened an investigation into how a jet flying from Paris to Dubai went over Iraq as Iranian missiles fired at Israel crossed the same airspace, the airline said Wednesday. Palestinians fleeing sites of Israel’s renewed military operation in northern Gaza are being shot at as they evacuate, according to residents there and footage shared with CNN documenting their journey. Global oil prices have spiked in recent days as the conflict in the Middle East has reached fever pitch. They could rise yet further if Israel’s widening war embroils the vital Strait of Hormuz off Iran’s southern coast. ISIS and al Qaeda present a “resurgent” threat to the United Kingdom, the head of the country’s domestic security service warned in a rare public intervention on Tuesday, as he outlined a changing landscape of terrorism that is increasingly relying on ... Israel has escalated its war against Hezbollah, most recently announcing an expansion of its ground operation into the country’s southwestern area. Drone footage geolocated by CNN shows the level of devastation in the village of Yaroun ... It is almost impossible to remember life in Israel before Hamas launched its brutal October 7 attacks a year ago, killing more than 1,200 Israelis and kidnapping more than 250 others, and there is little point, because that life is gone for good. And not ... Saudi Arabia is betting big on AI to power its post-oil future, with the technology set to inject over $135 billion into the economy by 2030. Israel’s military says it has encircled Jabalya, northern Gaza, after seeing signs of Hamas rebuilding, despite nearly a year of fighting and strikes in the territory. CNN Senior International Correspondent Ben Wedeman reports on intense strikes by Israel in southern Beirut. Danny Citrinowicz, former head of the Iran branch for Israeli military intelligence, tells Fareed how he thinks Israel will respond to Iran’s missile barrage. CNN’s Michael Smerconish talks with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton about whether U.S. military presence in the Middle East is either containing or inflaming a wider conflict. CNN asked followers on social media if they had questions about the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. We picked some of the most-asked topics and put the key question to CNN’s International Diplomatic Editor, Nic Robertson. The US has strengthened its military posture consistently in the Middle East over the last year following the breakout of the war between Israel and Hamas, with tensions increasing further in the days after Israel launched its operation against Hezbollah. Israel has pummeled Lebanon with an unprecedented airstrike campaign over the last two weeks, killing over 1,400 people, injuring nearly 7,500 others and displacing more than one million people from their homes, according to the Lebanese health ministry. Yair Pinhas grew up hiking in the hills around Kiryat Shmona, his hometown in northern Israel, near the border with Lebanon. CNN’s Erin Burnett talks to retired Lt. Colonel Jonathan Conricus, former IDF spokesperson, about maps he provided that he thinks show possible Israeli targets in Iran – and how Iran may be able to defend themselves at those targets. The Middle East is in chaos, and the oil market is remarkably calm about it. CNN’s 5 Things brings you the news you need to know every morning. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Lebanon’s Foreign Minister Abdallah Bou Habib, just before Iran’s strikes on Israel on Tuesday. The former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak says Israel has a “compelling need to respond” to Iran’s missile attack; but warns, “Israel cannot rearrange the Middle East on its own.” In the days after Hamas’ October 7 attack on Israel, fears ran high of a regional war. The conflict would not be contained in Gaza, the thinking went – Hezbollah would attack Israel from the north, the Houthis from Yemen, and Iranian proxies from Iraq. ... The Middle East is edging ever closer toward a full-blown regional war as Israel vowed to respond to Iran’s huge barrage of ballistic missiles fired at the country on Tuesday night, capping a day of dramatic military escalation in the region. Iran has unleashed its largest ever attack on Israel, firing 180 ballistic missiles late Tuesday most of which were apparently intercepted by anti-missile defenses employed by Israel, the United States and Jordan, according to those countries’ ... Iran launched dozens of missiles toward Israel on Tuesday in what it said was a response to the killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah and others – potentially taking the region closer to a wider conflict. Iranians and Gazans are shown celebrating as missiles launched by Iran fire at Israel in an attack Tuesday. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said the attack focused on Israeli security and military targets and was in response to the killing of ... Missiles rained down on Israel as Iran launched an attack on Tuesday. See the first images of damage from the barrage of missile fire. Iran has launched a missile attack on Israel. Sirens sounded across the country as CNN teams on the ground saw dozens of missiles over the cities of Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and Haifa. Missiles have been launched from Iran to Israel, according to an Israel Defense Forces statement. CNN’s Jim Sciutto reports from Tel Aviv. Israel has launched a ground incursion in southern Lebanon in order to target Hezbollah. Israeli officials say there will be no long-term occupation of the country, and that the incursion will be limited in scope. Israel has launched a ground operation across its northern border into Lebanon targeting the Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah, opening a new and dangerous phase in almost a year of war. Israel’s apparently impending ground incursion into Lebanon will drive home a new strategic reality of a year of war — the once-mighty US is powerless to rein in its ally or to influence other major belligerents in a fast-worsening regional crisis. As satellite images show Israeli military vehicles close to the Lebanon border, CNN’s Ben Wedeman reacts to a possible incursion. The IDF would not comment when asked about whether the vehicles were part of a potential invasion force. Egypt’s former Foreign Minister Nabil Fahmy talks to Christiane Amanpour about Israel’s attacks in Lebanon. The past holds bitter lessons for leaders who entertain grand ambitions of tectonic changes in Lebanon, and in the Middle East in general. A sense of dread is palpable. Many of the country’s displaced have lost loved ones but can barely find the time to grieve as they scramble for shelter and food. Those not yet personally impacted must contend with the unknown territory into which the ... Israel strikes targets including a seaport and power station in Houthi-controlled Yemen after the Iran-backed Houthis launched recent rocket and missile attacks on Israel. CNN’s Jim Sciutto reports. Fareed asks Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian about rising tensions between Hezbollah and Israel and the possibility of further expansion of the conflict. The last 48 hours in the Middle East – in which Israel killed Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah and continued to bombard the Iran-backed group across Lebanon – have once more ratcheted fears that this long-running conflict could spiral into a wider ... Hassan Nasrallah, who Israel killed in a strike on southern Beirut, turned Hezbollah into one of the most powerful paramilitary forces in the Middle East. Barak Ravid joins The Lead Israel carried out strikes in the southern suburbs of Beirut, which it said killed a Hezbollah commander, as the US and allies call for a 21-day ceasefire. Follow for live news updates. Christiane Amanpour asks Javad Zarif, Iran’s Vice President for Strategic Affairs, about women’s rights, hostages, and if Iran will be pulled into a regional war. A missile intercepted near Tel Aviv, Israel, is the first fired by the militant group Hezbollah to reach close to the city, the Israeli military said. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports from Tel Aviv, Israel, in conversation with Tamara Qiblawi in Beirut, Lebanon ... The first-ever visit by a president of the United Arab Emirates to the White House took place this week as Israel’s war in Gaza expanded to Lebanon. That war, however, was not at the top of the agenda in talks with US officials. Israel launched an intense barrage of airstrikes across swathes of Lebanon on Monday in what was the deadliest day for the country since at least the 2006 war fought between Israel and the powerful Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah. A US Navy replenishment ship sustained damage while operating in the Middle East, according to a Navy official, in an incident that remains under investigation. CNN Senior International Correspondent Ben Wedeman reacts to President Biden’s speech at the 79th United Nations General Assembly where he spoke about peace in the Middle East. Lebanese health officials have reported over 100 deaths and 400 injuries due to intensified Israeli airstrikes, escalating the conflict with Hezbollah. Approximately 300 strikes have prompted mass evacuations and school closures, causing civilians to ... Fareed sits down with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres ahead of the upcoming UN General Assembly. They discuss rising escalations in the Middle East and the threat of wider regional war. Israel launched one of its most intense bombardments against Hezbollah targets in Lebanon this year Thursday, hours after the militant group’s leader condemned deadly twin attacks that he said crossed “all the red lines.” Families of Hamas hostages join The Lead Israel said a “new era” of war was beginning Wednesday, tacitly acknowledging its role in shock twin attacks targeting Hezbollah that have pushed the Middle East back to the brink of wider conflict. The vote comes after the UN’s top court said in July that Israel’s presence in the West Bank and East Jerusalem is illegal. After a second day of explosions target Hezbollah in Lebanon, Christiane Amanpour speaks with Abdallah Bou Habib about risk of war with Israel A missile was launched from Yemen into central Israel on Sunday morning, according to the Israeli military, in a rare instance of a missile penetrating so far into the country’s territory since its war in Gaza began. In recent years, the United Arab Emirates has been signalling its intent to become a major player in artificial intelligence, but now other Gulf countries are also getting serious about the technology. Alleged Israeli airstrikes in central Syria on Sunday night struck a facility claimed by the West to have produced chemical weapons, according to a local resident. Former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert and former Palestinian Authority foreign minister Nasser al-Kidwa talk to Fareed about their joint vision for a long-lasting peace in the Middle East. A young Turkish-American woman, Aysenur Eygi, was shot and killed in the Israeli-occupied West Bank on Friday, according to US and Palestinian officials, while she was taking part in a protest near Nablus. CNN’s Nick Robertson joins The Lead. In southern Israel’s Negev desert, residents of the Bedouin village of Khirbet Karkur live in tents and metal-clad makeshift homes. Not far from the border with Gaza, they hear the sounds of the war unfolding next door. The Israeli military has sent out messages saying the residents of some areas in Gaza can return, but families in those neighborhoods have found scenes of destruction. Monday was the deadliest day of the year so far for Pakistan, the latest flare-up in a long-running insurgency driven by inequality, ethnic resentments and colossal Chinese investments. Israel’s military said it killed three Hamas members, including a commander, as its offensive in the occupied West Bank entered its third day. Israel’s assault on Gaza since the Hamas-led October 7 attack has killed more than 40,000 people, according to Palestinian authorities, drawing international condemnation. But just 60 miles away, another major escalation of violence has ... Israel’s military said Thursday it killed five Palestinian militants, including an Islamic Jihad commander, during an exchange of fire “within and near a mosque” in the occupied West Bank city of Tulkarem. Israel’s military carried out raids and airstrikes in multiple parts of the occupied West Bank early Wednesday, killing at least 11 Palestinians in an offensive Israel says is its most expansive in years. Israel launched a large-scale raid in the West Bank on Wednesday, saying the operation was its most expansive in years. For nearly a month, people in Lebanon and Israel braced for a wider war. A deadly rocket strike from Lebanon last month on the town of Majdal Shams in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights was followed by an Israeli retaliatory strike that killed ... Bianna Golodryga speaks to Haaretz journalist Amos Harel and Suzanne Maloney of the Brookings Institution about the ongoing ceasefire talks in Cairo — and why so many players involved are not interested in a deal. Iran’s pledged retaliation against Israel for the killing of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh will take time, a spokesperson for the country’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) said Tuesday. Suspended 212 meters above sea level, the Burj al Arab’s helipad juts out precariously from the distinctive sail shape of the building. CNN’s Fareed Zakaria gives his take on how the US’ handling of Iran and the nuclear deal is now affecting the growing tensions in the Middle East. An Israeli strike has killed at least ten people in Nabatiyeh, southern Lebanon, the Lebanese Ministry of Health said, prompting Hezbollah to launch a barrage of retaliatory rockets at Israel. CNN’s Ben Wedeman walks through the rubble of a ... The UK has called for the need to break the “current destructive cycle of retaliatory violence” in the Middle East. An assault by dozens of Israeli settlers has devastated a Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank, drawing blistering condemnation from top Israeli officials. The mood in Lebanon’s restive capital has darkened in the two weeks since Israel’s July 30 attack in southern Beirut that killed Iran-backed Hezbollah’s top commander Fu’ad Shukr and four civilians. Israel and the United States are preparing for a potential Iranian attack on Israel, as efforts to secure a ceasefire in Gaza intensify ahead of the expected resumption of formal negotiations this week. The United States will resume sales of offensive weapons to Saudi Arabia, the State Department said Monday, ending a suspension put in place at the beginning of the Biden administration over concerns about human rights violations in the war in ... Hezbollah fired a barrage of rockets toward northern Israel on Sunday night, as Israeli forces remain on high alert for potential retaliation from Iran and its proxies following the assassination of a top Hamas leader last month. Could Tehran be prepared to pull back in exchange for progress on Gaza peace talks? In Israel’s northern city of Nahariya, a sense of anxiety lingers among residents as they struggle to maintain daily life with the threat of war with Lebanon’s Hezbollah edging closer to their doorsteps. While the American military is rallying allies to yet again help defend Israel against an expected Iranian attack, top American officials are simultaneously pressing partners to push Iran to not carry out a strike – or coordinated strikes with its proxy groups – ... Washington on Monday braced for an expected Iranian retaliation for the killing of a top Hamas leader in Tehran last week, even as deep uncertainty swirled around when Iran would act — and how far it might go. This week’s events could determine the course of the war in Gaza and significantly shift the focus away from the besieged enclave if retaliation by Iran escalates into a wider regional conflict involving the United States and other nations. Fears over Middle East tensions escalating, hurricane Debby drenches the Southeast, “Instagram Island” conundrum and much more on today’s episode of 5 Things. Sign up for our newsletter at CNN.com/5Things and watch more at CNN Max. Religious tourism has long been a major driver for Saudi Arabia’s economy. The government is now targeting growth in its wider travel and tourism industry, with potential gains for the private sector. Countries are urging their citizens to leave Lebanon “as soon as possible” amid heightening tensions in the region. Retired US Army Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling joins CNN as the Middle East braces for possible Iranian retaliation for the killing of a senior Hamas leader in Tehran. Fareed talks to New Yorker staff writer Robin Wright and Johns Hopkins professor Vali Nasr about whether the spree of assassinations in the Middle East could widen the conflict, as Israel braces for a possible attack from Iran. Fareed speaks to New Yorker staff writer Robin Wright and Johns Hopkins professor Vali Nasr about how the US could work to calm tensions in the Middle East. CNN’s Jim Sciutto speaks with the Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Israeli-Palestinian Affairs Andrew Miller about the Middle East, as the region braces for an Iranian retaliation to the killing of a senior Hamas leader in Tehran. The US is sending a carrier strike group, a fighter squadron and additional warships to the Middle East as the region braces for an Iranian retaliation to the killing of a senior Hamas leader in Tehran earlier this week. Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was buried Friday in Doha  as his killing raises fears that Israel’s conflict with Hamas could spiral into a regional war. Russia was preparing to deliver missiles and other military equipment to the Houthi rebels in Yemen late last month but pulled back at the last minute amid a flurry of behind-the-scenes efforts by the United States and Saudi Arabia to stop it, multiple ... President Joe Biden voiced his concern about the rising tension between Israel and Iran after Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was killed in Tehran. US National Security Council spokesman John Kirby spoke to CNN’s Kate Bolduan about the ... Israel said a strike last month killed Mohammed Deif, head of Hamas’ military wing - the third high-profile figure in Iran-backed militant groups to be killed in recent weeks. Follow for live updates. The Israeli military has said that one of the reported masterminds of the October 7 attacks, Hamas’ military chief Mohammed Deif, was killed in a strike it carried out in southern Gaza last month. Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was killed in Tehran. While Israel has not confirmed its involvement, Iran’s Supreme Leader has vowed a response, raising concerns about potential violence. CNN’s Selma Abdulaziz reports. One of the few things working in Iran’s favor after the humiliating news that Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in the Iranian capital overnight is that the regime controls most of the information the world gets to see. Hamas said its political leader has been killed in an overnight strike in the Iranian capital Tehran, a major development that throws the war between Israel and the militant group into an unpredictable and dangerous new phase. The assassination of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh in the Iranian capital Tehran has rocked the Middle East, threatening to further destabilize the region and jeopardize ceasefire negotiations between Israel and Hamas over the war in ... Nabih Bulos, Middle East Bureau Chief for The Los Angeles Times, talks to Bianna Golodrgya about fears of a wider war following the killings of a Hezbollah commander in Beirut, and a Hamas leader in Tehran. Bianna Golodryga speaks with security experts Jim Sciutto and Colin Clarke about Israel’s strike in Beirut targeting a top Hezbollah commander. Israel claimed responsibility for a “targeted strike” in southern Beirut. The IDF says it was aimed at the Hezbollah commander responsible for a rocket attack in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights that killed 12 children. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. Israel’s military issued an evacuation order to residents in the southern part of Khan Younis, warning it would “forcefully operate” in the embattled Gazan town, according to a statement on Saturday morning. Thousands of Palestinians are being forced to flee the city of Khan Younis after the IDF issued evacuation orders for parts of the city. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. Dozens of Palestinians have been killed and thousands more forced to flee after Israel launched a fresh ground assault against what it said were Hamas targets in the southern Gazan city of Khan Younis. Video obtained by CNN shows masked Israeli settlers attacking Palestinian farmers and foreign activists accompanying them through the town of Qusra in the West Bank. In a statement to CNN, the Israel Defense Forces acknowledged the attack, ... Masked Israeli settlers attacked a group of Palestinian farmers and foreign activists accompanying them for protection in the West Bank town of Qusra on Sunday, according to victims of the attack and videos obtained by CNN. Saturday saw Israel strike inside Yemen for the first time, in response to a deadly drone attack launched by Houthi rebels on Tel Aviv. At least three people were killed and scores more injured in Israeli airstrikes on a Yemeni port, Houthi rebels have said, a day after the Iran-backed group claimed a deadly attack on the Israeli city of Tel Aviv. Israeli airstrikes targeted Houthi rebels in Yemen a day after the Iran-backed group claimed a deadly attack on the Israeli city of Tel Aviv. The United Nations’ top court said Friday that Israel’s presence in the West Bank and East Jerusalem is illegal, in an unprecedented opinion that called on Israel to end its decades-long occupation of territories that Palestinians want as part of a future state. The incident has shocked a country that avoided the sectarian violence that gripped some Middle Eastern states after ISIS declared a state in Iraq and Syria a decade ago and sought to expand throughout the Arabian Peninsula. Mohammad Baraa Qatarji facilitated the trade in fuel between the Syrian regime and the terrorist group, according to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Top Hamas commander Mohammed Deif was the figure targeted in an Israeli strike on a displacement camp in southern Gaza which killed at least 90 Palestinians. Officials in Israel say they targeted Hamas’ top military official, Mohammed Deif, in an airstrike in southern Gaza, where local authorities say at least 71 Palestinians were killed in multiple strikes in the same area. At least 50 Palestinians were found killed on Friday, local authorities said, after the Israeli military pulled back from several areas in central and northern Gaza, leaving entire neighborhoods razed and residents reeling from a spate of heavy attacks. Indian photographer Ramesh Shukla moved to Dubai in 1965, and captured the birth of the United Arab Emirates on camera. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond visits the Northern Israel town of Shtula, where Hezbollah forces have left devastation and destruction. CNN sees the extent of destruction wrought upon the city in southern Gaza, from flattened homes to bombed-out buildings. Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham tells CNN’s Dana Bash that “it may be possible between now and the election” to negotiate a normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia. Qatar, Egypt and Saudi Arabia on Saturday condemned reports that Israel is planning to strengthen Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank. The US is moving forces closer to Israel and Lebanon amid concerns of escalating cross-border fire, according to two US officials, including forces able to carry out an evacuation of American citizens. CNN’s Paula Hancocks tells the story of one Palestinian family that found themselves caught in the middle of the June 8th operation Israeli forces hailed as a daring success but left this family suffering an unimaginable loss. Tensions between Israel and Lebanon have risen sharply since the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel and the ensuing military campaign by Israel in Gaza. Tens of thousands of people on both sides of the mountainous border have fled as ... Residents in town of Marjayoun in southern Lebanon, near the border with Israel, fear tensions between Israel and Hezbollah could escalate into another war Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich has spoken about preventing the occupied West Bank from becoming a part of an independent Palestinian state, according to leaked audio of a speech he gave earlier this month. Israel and Hezbollah, a militant group in Lebanon that is backed by Iran, are dangerously close to a large-scale conflict. Since last October, Israel and Hezbollah have been ramping up cross-border attacks. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. The Prime Minister’s Office says proposals for strengthening settlements in what Israel biblically refers to as Judea and Samaria will be voted on at the next Security Cabinet meeting. The Israel Defense Forces say that another barrage of rockets and missiles were aimed at northern Israel late Friday. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports on the rising tensions in the region. Darfur, a region in western Sudan, has a tragic history marked by ethnic violence and humanitarian crises. In the early 2000s, the region experienced a brutal conflict that resulted in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions. ... The IDF says a “large missile barrage” has been fired from Lebanon towards its northern territory sparking fires in “a number of areas.” CNN’s Ben Wedeman joins Max Foster with the details from Beirut. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will travel to the Middle East next week as the United States seeks to ratchet up the pressure on a proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal that the administration argues could bring an end to the war in Gaza. Middle East expert Firas Maksad tells CNN’s Michael Holmes, tensions between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon are at a dangerous tipping point. Large crowds of young Israeli nationalists pushed their way through the narrow streets of Jerusalem’s Old City intimidating, and in some cases attacking, Palestinian shopkeepers and journalists, as they marked Jerusalem Day in what has become ... CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports on the latest escalation of tensions along the Israel-Lebanon border, after Hezbollah uses drones in an attack on a village in northern Israel. Tensions are escalating on the Israel-Lebanon border as the Israeli military warned it was prepared to launch a large-scale attack in the north to deter the Iran-backed Islamist group Hezbollah. Top Biden administration officials are traveling to the Middle East this week to engage in ongoing talks on a possible ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and Hamas, as well as the dire situation in the Gazan city of Rafah, US officials told CNN. Israeli airstrikes near the Syrian city of Aleppo early Monday killed an Iranian military adviser, Iranian media reported, two months after the Middle East came to the brink of a major war as Israel and Iran engaged in unprecedented direct attacks on each ... The 31st edition of the Middle East’s oldest and largest trade travel event, the Arabian Travel Market, comes at a significant time for the region. CNN’s Eleni Giokos sits down with leading industry players for a look at some of the biggest trends shaping the ... The Israeli military is in central Rafah, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) confirmed in a statement Friday, despite international concern and anger over its military operation in Gaza’s southernmost city. Chinese leader Xi Jinping decried “tremendous sufferings” in the Middle East and called for an international peace conference as leaders from Arab nations visit Beijing this week amid mounting global concern over Israel’s war in Gaza. Video footage verified by CNN shows tanks moving further into Rafah, signaling a push by the Israeli military despite mounting global pressure. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports. The Israel Defense Forces says it found 20 tunnels between Gaza and Egypt that are now being “neutralized.” CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports. The Israeli military says it established “operational control” over the Philadelphi Corridor, a 14-kilometer (8.7 miles) strip of land along the border between Gaza and Egypt. Israel’s tanks were seen in central Rafah on Tuesday for the first time since its military entered Gaza’s southernmost city earlier this month, two eyewitnesses told CNN, signaling a new phase in its offensive despite mounting global pressure. While super-tall skyscrapers and air-conned shopping malls might be the first thing that comes to mind when you think of Dubai, the city also has an old district where visitors can see where it all began. At least 35 people were killed in Israeli strikes on a camp for displaced people in Rafah, the Gaza health ministry said Sunday. Israel claimed it struck a Hamas compound in the area. Mohammad Zarqa trembled with fear as he watched panicked crowds of people, screaming and covered in blood, rush into his small village on the outskirts of Jerusalem. As Spain, Norway and Ireland announce plans to recognize a Palestinian state, Jose Manuel Albares says Spain’s goal is to bring security for everyone. Norwegian Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide tells CNN’s Becky Anderson why his country, Spain and Ireland are formally recognizing a Palestinian state now, and why the move supports more moderate forces seeking Middle East peace. Europe has struggled over the Middle East for a very long time. Following the death of Iranian president Ebrahim Raisi, Alex Vatanka, Director of the Iran Program at the Middle East Institute, tells Becky Anderson how the country moves forward. Iranian president Ebrahim Raisi’s death comes at a time of turmoil in the Middle East, centered around Israel’s war in Gaza. Fawaz Gerges of the London School of Economics joins Becky Anderson to discuss. Professor Ali Ansari, from the University of St. Andrews, discusses the impact of Ebrahim Raisi’s presidency and what his death means for the future of Iran. As Israeli troops continue to push into Rafah and back into northern Gaza, Palestinians say there’s no safe place left. CNN’s Scott McLean reports. With no survivors found from the helicopter crash involving Iran’s president, CNN Senior Political Analyst Ron Brownstein talks about the potential impact on U.S.-Middle East relations. While some 800,000 Palestinians have been displaced from Gaza’s southern city of Rafah, medical sources say Israeli strikes in the north killed dozens of people. CNN’s Anna Coren has the latest on the crisis in Gaza. At the Arabian Travel Market, Julia Simpson, president of the World Travel and Tourism Council, spoke about trends in tourism in the Middle East. Egypt could consider downgrading relations with Israel if it presses on with a military operation in Gaza’s southernmost city of Rafah on the Egyptian border, an Egyptian official told CNN. At Dubai’s Arabian Travel Market event, CNN caught up with Azzan Al Busaidi, Oman’s Undersecretary of Tourism. Strategically located at the crossroads of key trade routes, shipping and logistics companies across the Middle East play a key role in facilitating the transport of goods between markets in the East and the West. CNN’s Eleni Giokos looks at how ... Dwindling food aid, medical shortages and overcrowded shelters contribute to a humanitarian crisis in Gaza of unimaginable scope. Olga Cherekov with the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs joins Rosemary Church to share her ... Senior U.S. officials tell CNN the Biden administration has assessed that Israel has amassed enough troops near Rafah to move forward with a full-scale incursion. CNN Senior White House Correspondent MJ Lee reports. Israeli forces are now operating in areas of Gaza that they said they had previously cleared. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports from Jerusalem. A U.N. agency says more than 360,000 Palestinians have fled Rafah over the past week, as Israel strikes targets in the north and south of Gaza. CNN’s Scott McLean reports. Former Palestinian Authority Foreign Minister Nasser al-Kidwa tells Fareed who he thinks should rebuild and provide security in Gaza after the war. The Middle East’s Travel and Tourism sector grew by more than 25% in 2023 and international visitors’ spending reached almost $180 billion, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. CNN’s Ben Wedeman looks at how Biden says he will stop sending bombs and artillery shells to Israel if they launch a major invasion of Rafah. The IDF claim to have captured the Palestinian side of the Rafah crossing on May 7 as they plan to send a delegation to Cairo for continued ceasefire talks with Hamas. The move is an attempt to put more pressure on Hamas in negotiations, a source told ... Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi talks with CNN’s Becky Anderson about the Israel-Hamas war. More than a thousand people have been rescued after being marooned by flooding in western Kenya, the Red Cross said on Monday. CNN’s Larry Madowo reports on why climate change is exacerbating the devastation. CNN’s John Vause speaks to Suze van Meegen, from the Norwegian Refugee Council, who is currently in Rafah about the scene on the ground as Israel launched airstrikes. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports on the overnight airstrikes in Rafah and the capture of the Rafah border crossing by the Israeli military. The Israeli military says it has captured the Gazan side of the Rafah crossing, as Israel says its military will move forward with its operation in the region. Opened last year in a star-studded, three-day celebration, Atlantis, The Royal in Dubai is the only resort in the Middle East to snag a spot on the inaugural World’s 50 Best Hotels list. Bianna Golodryga speaks to Middle East Director of the International Communities Organization, Gershon Baskin. Gazans packed their belongings on pick-up trucks, cars and donkey-drawn carts after Israel’s military issued a call for residents there to “evacuate immediately.” CNN’s Eleni Giokos attended a special World Economic Forum meeting held outside the traditional Davos setting to get a closer look at the transformation shaping Middle Eastern economies. Dartmouth College professor Bernard Avishai and former Egyptian diplomat Ezzedine Fishere speak to Fareed about whether there’s a viable path to peace in the Middle East. After months of talking about it, Israel still has not launched a ground offensive in Rafah. CNN’s Anna Coren speaks with Jon B. Alterman, Senior Vice President, CSIS Brzezinski Chair in Global Security and Geostrategy, about some of the challenges ... Rep. Ro Khanna joins students for a conversation about the crisis in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia and the United States are finalizing the details of a landmark deal to strengthen bilateral trade and defense – but an agreement will not be reached if the kingdom and Israel do not establish diplomatic relations, US officials said. After Israel-Iran tensions, the clock may be ticking for Lebanon, with a possible Israeli offensive looming that would be devastating to Biden administration, writes Hussein Ibish. Reporting from Tehran, Fred Pleitgen speaks to a general of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard about the weapons it’s been using against Israel and allegedly giving to Russia. Sanam Vakil, Director of the Middle East Programme at Chatham House, talks to Christiane Amanpour about Iranian leaders’ ambitions both in the region and at home. Two weeks after the Middle East came to the brink of an all-out war, Tehran is keen to show the world that it is capable of fighting a wider conflict should it be faced with one. CNN’s Fred Pleitgen gets a close-up look at the types of missiles Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps used in the attack on Israel in mid April. The North African territory of Ceuta is surrounded by Morocco but claimed as part of Spanish Europe. It’s one of the most unusual places on either continent. Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Economy and Planning Faisal F. Alibrahim tells CNN that the country’s non-oil activities have reached 50% of total GDP, marking a milestone they plan to further expand upon. A Human Rights Watch report says Israel is behind the rise in settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank. Michael Holmes speaks with Omar Shakir, Israel and Palestine Director of Human Rights Watch, about what the report says. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will travel to Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia this week to meet with regional partners as talks between Israel and Hamas remain deadlocked, the State Department announced over the weekend. As tensions between Iran and Israel escalate in the Middle East, Fred Pleitgen reports on what Iranians on the ground are saying and demanding from their country’s foreign policy. Michael Holmes speaks with award-winning journalist Maha Hussaini about the challenges and risks of reporting in Gaza. Israeli settlers attacked Palestinians in the West Bank this weekend, according to the Palestinian health ministry, while the IDF carried out one of its largest operations in the occupied territory since October 7. As tit-for-tat strikes between Israel and Iran appear to have concluded, Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi explains to Fareed why he thinks Israel’s policies have brought “more conflict, more tension, hatred, dehumanization and the destruction ... The Israeli military is carrying out what appears to be one of its largest operations in the West Bank since October 7, while broader tensions simmer in the Middle East following strikes between Iran and Israel. Follow for live updates. Both Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates are working to recover from major flooding events, but forecasts for one region indicate more severe weather is on the way. CNN’s Michael Holmes discusses the increasing tensions in the Middle East with Steven Cook, a Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies with the Council on Foreign Relations. Israel carried out a military strike on Iran early Friday, a US official told CNN, in a potentially dangerous escalation of a fast-widening Middle East conflict that Iranian officials have so far sought to play down. Richard Quest speaks to Egyptian Finance Minister Mohamed Maait as tensions flare in the Middle East. Israel and Iran have now thrust the Middle East into a dangerous new era by erasing the taboo against overt military strikes on one another’s territory. The scope of Israel’s military response to Iran’s first-ever direct attack on the country remains murky. Israeli officials have yet to publicly acknowledge responsibility for reported overnight explosions in parts of Iran on Friday. Tehran has dismissed these ... Israel has carried out a strike inside Iran, a US official told CNN Friday, a move that threatens to push the region deeper into conflict. The target is not nuclear, the official added. Israel has carried out a military strike inside Iran, a US official told CNN. Israel has not commented and Iran has not identified the source of the attack. Videos show flashes in the sky near the location of the strike. CNN cannot independently confirm the ... An unclaimed aerial attack in central Iran on Friday comes fresh on the heels of tit-for-tat Iranian and Israeli strikes earlier this month, marking a potentially dangerous escalation of the Middle East conflict. A retired U.S. Army General tells CNN’s John Vause that despite the apparent pause in strikes between Israel and Iran, the situation has not returned to normal. Major General Mark MacCarley (Ret.) says Israel’s response was a shrewd calculation by ... A former senior Israeli general told Christiane Amanpour that Israel probably has to respond to strikes by Iran, but in a proportional way. Christiane speaks from London with CNN’s John Vause. Iran’s response if Israel takes any further military action against it would be “immediate and at a maximum level”, Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian told CNN Thursday as fears rise of an escalation of the conflict in the Middle East. Israel has carried out a strike inside Iran, according to a US official. The target is not nuclear, the official said. CNN’s Jim Sciutto discusses the situation with retired U.S. Army Major General Mark MacCarley. CNN has previously reported that Israel told the U.S. its response to last weekend’s massive aerial assault on Israel would be limited in scope. CNN’s Michael Holmes discusses the situation with Miri Eisin, a Colonel in the IDF. Iranian foreign minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian spoke to CNN’s Erin Burnett in an exclusive live interview amid rising tensions with Israel and ongoing conflict in the Middle East. Chaos ensued in the United Arab Emirates after the country witnessed the heaviest rainfall in 75 years, with some areas recording more than 250 mm of precipitation in fewer than 24 hours, the state’s media office said in a statement Wednesday. CNN’s Nic Robertson looks at the divisions within Israel. Tamir Hayman was a Major General in the Israeli Defense Forces. He tells Christiane Amanpour that Israel has time to consider its response to Iran’s attack. In an exclusive interview with CNN’s Becky Anderson, Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi weighs in on the rising regional tensions following Iran’s attack on Israel and reaffirms the need for de-escalation. Narges Bajoghli, Assistant Professor at Johns Hopkins University, speaks to Becky Anderson about Iran’s multipronged attack on Israel and what it says about the power of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards. At least 17 people have died in flash floods in Oman, while more than 100 are reported dead in Pakistan and Afghanistan. CNN Weather Anchor Derek Van Dam has more on the dangerous storms. As Israel’s war cabinet weighs its response to Iran’s attack, former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Wesley Clark gives insight into what’s at stake. Can Netanyahu read the room right – with Iran threatening to attack, allies warning him not to – and avoid triggering a regional war? CNN’s Rosemary Church talks to military analyst Malcolm Davis about suggestions that there’s a double standard between U.S. support for Israel and Ukraine, and why he thinks both conflicts should be seen as theaters of a wider war. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond visits an Israeli military base to get an up-close look at what the IDF says is part of an Iranian missile used in its recent attack on Israel. Tensions over Israel and Gaza: A new ADL study says antisemitic incidents rose 140%; USC cancels Muslim valedictorian’s speech over security concerns. London School of Economics Professor Fawaz Gerges joins Isa Soares to discuss how Israel may respond to Iran’s recent attack. Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani speaks about meeting with U.S. President Biden and the importance of de-escalating tensions in the Middle East. Mark Esper tells Christiane Amanpour that the Middle East is arguably “on the precipice” of wider regional war. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Former U.S. Defense Secretary Mark Esper about the consequences of Iran’s attack on Israel and whether the region is on the precipice of war. The notion that one day Iran would attack Israel may have seemed like a distant possibility, but we learned the unimaginable does happen, writes Frida Ghitis. Egypt is a major player in trying to defuse the crisis in the Middle East. Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry speaks to Becky Anderson about efforts to deescalate tensions between Iran and Israel. Israel’s war cabinet weighs how it will respond to Iran’s unprecedented aerial assault on its territory as allies urge restraint. CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson reports from Jerusalem. China has voiced “deep concern” over escalating tensions in the Middle East, where Beijing has pledged to play peacemaker and promote its own security vision. Isa Soares speaks with Alon Pinkas, Former Israeli Consul General, as allies around the world call for cooler heads while Israel vows to “exact a price” from Iran. Israel was set to take its first steps towards a ground offensive on the Gaza city of Rafah but delayed that campaign after Iran’s weekend attack on their country, which has sparked a heated debate in the Israeli war cabinet over how to respond, Israeli ... On April 14, thousands of Palestinians attempted to return to northern Gaza as the IDF warn that the area is still a “dangerous combat zone.” The wave of drones and missiles that flew towards Israel overnight on Sunday brought with it a new phase of tension, uncertainty and confrontation in the Middle East. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Former U.S. Ambassador to Israel, Daniel Kurtzer, about the slim chances of de-escalation in the Middle East following Iran’s attack on Israel and how if Israel does decide to do something to lead to a more significant ... Firas Maksad, Director of Outreach at Middle East Institute, tells Becky that although Arab leaders and U.S. are calling for a de-escalation, they are still expecting an Israeli response as this is the first direct Iranian attack on Israel. Iran’s unprecedented attack on Israel over the weekend has ratcheted up tensions in the oil-rich Middle East yet again, threatening to send fuel prices skyward if the conflict escalates and disrupts global supplies. As Israel weighs its response to Iran’s unprecedented attack, CNN’s Ben Wedeman explains why countries in the region are on edge. CNN’s Max Foster talks to Arash Azizi, author of “The Shadow Commander” and “What Iranians Want” about what he believes Iran may have been trying to achieve with this weekend’s attack on Israel. Countries in the Middle East are calling for restraint on both sides of the Israel-Iran conflict. Becky Anderson speaks with journalist Abas Aslani in Tehran, who claims that Iran’s attacks were intentionally meant not to cause casualties. A decades-long shadow war burst out into the open overnight as Iranian drones and missiles lit up the night sky in Israel and the occupied West Bank. Tehran’s operation was highly choreographed, apparently designed to minimize casualties while ... Israel’s three-man war cabinet is weighing the country’s response to an unprecedented overnight barrage of drone and missile strikes from Iran, which for several hours threatened to tip the crisis in the Middle East into an untempered ... Retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton talks with CNN’s Jim Sciutto about the Iran attack on Israel. Iran’s missile and drone attack against Israel was a result of both the Iranian regime’s nature and of policy reversals and blunders by the US, writes Peter Bergen. Video filmed by a CNN stringer shows a coastal road filled with Palestinians heading north for the first time in such numbers. The IDF says such journeys are not permitted. David Sanger, author of “New Cold Wars,” and former State Department adviser Vali Nasr tell Fareed why it’s so difficult to restrain Iran today amid the rivalry that pits the US against Russia and China. Fareed talks to Johns Hopkins professor Vali Nasr and New York Times correspondent David Sanger about why Iran chose to attack Israel – and whether this will fuel an uncontrolled escalation. Almost all the ballistic missiles and drones Iran launched at Israel in an unprecedented attack late Saturday were intercepted and failed to meet their mark, according to Israel and the United States officials, highlighting the formidable, and ... For President Joe Biden, an attack on Israel launched from Iranian soil amounts to a scenario he’d greatly sought to avoid since the start of the current Middle East conflict. CNN’s Alex Marquardt speaks with Sanam Vakil, the Director of the Middle East and North Africa Programme at Chatham House, about the continuing Israel-Iran tensions. Iran launched more than 300 projectiles toward Israel in an attack that Iran claims was “self defense” following a deadly airstrike on their Syrian embassy earlier this month. Yaakov Katz of the Jerusalem Post breaks down how Israel might respond. CNN’s Becky Anderson speaks to Harel Chorev, a senior researcher at Tel Aviv University, about Iran’s retaliatory strikes on Israel. As the Middle East reacts to Iran’s attack on Israel, Director of Carnegie Middle East Center Maha Yahya shares the latest concerns about Israel’s possible response. The reaction to Iran’s attack on Israel is a mixture of condemnation and concern from European and Middle Eastern countries. Becky Anderson speaks with Gideon Levy, a former adviser to Shimon Peres, and a columnist with Haaretz. CNN’s Becky Anderson speaks to Harel chorev, a senior researcher at Tel Aviv University about Iran’s retaliatory strikes on Israel. Iran has launched a wave of strikes toward Israel in retaliation for last week’s deadly Israeli strike on an Iranian embassy complex in Syria, in an unprecedented move by Tehran that could further widen the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. Iran has launched dozens of drones toward Israel, an Israeli military official says. Retired Lieutenant General Mark Hertling joins a CNN panel to discuss. Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Navy has seized a container ship in a helicopter operation near the Strait of Hormuz, state news agency IRNA reported on Saturday. Hundreds of Israeli settlers are surrounding Palestinian towns and attacking residents across the occupied West Bank as of Saturday afternoon, eyewitnesses told CNN, after an Israeli boy who had gone missing from a settlement was found dead. Shredded Lebanese and Hezbollah flags tower over a destroyed boardwalk where a panoramic view of Israel’s Upper Galilee stretches out for miles. CNN’s Ben Wedeman embeds with UN peacekeepers along the demarcation line between Israel and Lebanon and witnesses firsthand the destruction from the near-daily Israeli airstrikes that have killed 300 people in the past six months. CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speaks with Farzan Sabet, a senior research associate at The Geneva Graduate Institute, about the rising tensions in the Middle East. Israel says it has carried out more strikes in Lebanon, hitting a complex used by Hezbollah. CNN’s Ben Wedeman rides along with U.N. peacekeepers patrolling in southern Lebanon. One of the people familiar with the intelligence tells CNN Iran wants any retaliatory strike on Israel– a response to the Israeli strike on an Iranian consulate last week in Damascus– to be “significant.” CNN’s Anna Coren discusses the situation with ... The US expects that Iran will carry out strikes against multiple targets inside Israel in the coming days and is prepared to help intercept any weapons launched at its ally, sources tell CNN, as the Biden administration is on high alert for what could be the ... CNN’s Abby Phillip speaks with retired Gen. John Allen, former four star general and NATO commander, about the threat of an Iranian attack on Israel. Mohammad sits on the back of a donkey-drawn cart, trundling down what is left of a road, alongside the few belongings he managed to retrieve from his flattened home. Wednesday should have marked the celebration of Eid al-Fitr; instead, it is another ... Gaza residents observing the end of the holy month of Ramadan with prayers at destroyed mosques and scarce food. CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson reports. Adviser to Israeli Defense Minister Tamir Hayman speaks to Becky Anderson about what a possible Iranian response could look like after last week’s Israeli strike on Iran’s consulate in Damascus. Israel is bracing for a retaliatory attack from Iran, following a strike last week on the Iranian consulate in Damascus. Meanwhile, aid groups’ efforts to get humanitarian assistance to Gaza remain complicated and dangerous. CNN’S Kim Brunhuber ... The top US general for the Middle East is in Israel as the region braces for a possible Iranian retaliation to Israel’s strike last week in Damascus, Syria. Cross-border attacks have driven tens of thousands of people from their homes on both sides of the Lebanon-Israel border. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. CNN’s Rosemary Church talks to the Carnegie Endowment’s Aaron David Miller about whether the war in Gaza is hitting a turning point after six months of fighting. Israel says it has withdrawn its forces from Khan Younis in southern Gaza, but that a “significant” force remains elsewhere in the strip. Six months into Israel’s war with Hamas, President Joe Biden is becoming ever more entangled in a foreign crisis that he cannot control but which is having deep consequences for US domestic politics and is weighing heavily on his reelection bid. The U.S. and Israel are preparing and waiting to see how Iran will respond to a deadly missile strike on its embassy compound in Damascus, Syria. Sanam Vakil, the Director of the Middle East and North Africa Programme at Chatham House explains what ... Egyptian-American heart surgeon-turned-satirist Bassem Youssef calls out Israel for the carnage in Gaza, where his wife has family. U.S. and Israeli officials prepare for possible Iranian retaliation for an Israeli airstrike in Damascus that killed at least seven Iranian officials, including a top commander. CNN’s MJ Lee reports. The White House is pushing back against claims it was involved in a presumed Israeli strike on the Iranian consulate in Damascus, as CNN’s Frederik Pleitgen reports. Iran may feel compelled to respond to an apparent Israeli strike on its embassy complex in Syria, despite Tehran’s unwillingness to enter war with Israel and the US. The Pentagon says its assessment is that Israel conducted Monday’s strike in the Syrian capital. Iran says the building was its consulate and is vowing revenge. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. This Ramadan, prayers for spiritual coexistence amid the war in Gaza will do much more in securing a Palestinian path to freedom than violence ever will, writes Palestinian-Israeli imam, Sheikh Khalil al-Baz. Ali Vaez, director of the Iran Project at the International Crisis Group, breaks down what’s next for Iran and the region following the attack in Damascus. Iran has vowed to retaliate after it accused Israel of bombing its embassy complex in Syria on Monday, in a deadly escalation of regional tensions over the war in Gaza that once again appeared to raise the risk of a wider Middle Eastern conflict. Rahel Solomon asks U.S. Senate Democrat Chris Coons for his reaction to the Israeli attack which claimed the lives of seven aid workers in Gaza, and the attack on the Iranian consulate in Damascus. Tehran says it holds the U.S. “answerable” for the deadly attack in Damascus because of America’s support for Israel. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. The global price of oil rose Tuesday to its highest level in seven months, propelled, in part, by concerns that mounting tensions in the Middle East could crimp supply. Iran accused Israel of killing two top commanders and five others in an airstrike on its consulate in Damascus, Syria. Follow for live updates.  Follow for live updates. A top commander in Iran’s Revolutionary Guard has been killed in an airstrike on the country’s consulate building in Damascus, Syria, according to Iranian state-affiliated media. The attack on the Iranian consulate in Damascus on Monday may be the most dangerous escalation outside of Gaza since the start of the Hamas-Israel war nearly six months ago. CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson explains the consequences of the deadly attack on an Iranian diplomatic building in Damascus, and how it could escalate tensions in the region. Aaron David Miller, a former U.S. State Department Middle East negotiator, explains to CNN’s Anna Coren why the U.S. continues to send more military aid to Israel as a humanitarian crisis in Gaza unfolds. The threat of ISIS, also known as Islamic State, might have seemed to be waning as headlines turned to Ukraine, Gaza and the next US election. But last week’s attack on a Moscow concert hall reminded the world of the enduring danger of Islamist ... Israel reportedly launched strikes on Aleppo, Syria, after Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon traded attacks earlier Friday. CNN’s Melissa Bell reports, the situation is stoking fears that Israel’s war against Hamas in Gaza will expand to include ... israel gaza war aid us diamond lkl 03271aseg1 cnni world fast Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel will conduct a ground offensive into the southern Gaza city of Rafah even without US support. Raghad Jaraisy and Ofer Dagan, co-executives of Sikkuy-Aufoq organization, talk to Christiane Amanpour about the importance of connecting Arab Israelis and Jewish Israelis. Despite growing international pressure against Israel’s plans for a ground offensive in Rafah, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vows to proceed. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports. US officials are hoping to meet with various Israeli and other Middle Eastern officials over the next week. Co-Chief Executives of organization Sikkuy-Aufoq, Raghad Jaraisy and Ofer Dagan, discuss their work creating a shared and equal society between Jewish Israelis and Arab Israelis. The Outpost Al Barari is the latest luxury desert escape in Qatar, offering tented villas with private pools, dining by open fires and a cinema under the stars. Warships from China, Russia and Iran have held live-fire exercises in a key Middle Eastern waterway this week as the three partners put on a show of force in the volatile region, according to reports in state-run media. US officials held indirect talks with Iranian officials in Oman in January amid rising tensions in the Middle East, according to a US official familiar with the matter. The hum of Israeli drones cuts through the festivities as a reminder that this is no ordinary Ramadan. Palestinians say the war has crushed hopes of observing a peaceful month of fasting, festivities and worship this year. Ship carrying about 200 tons of food is heading to Gaza but aid groups say much more is needed to meet the needs of the people in the enclave. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. Many families in Gaza began the Muslim holy month of Ramadan with little to celebrate after months of violence stemming from Israel’s war against Hamas. CNN’s Nada Bashir has more. As Ramadan begins, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has stated he will push ahead with the military offensive in Rafah where nearly 1.5 million Palestinians are currently taking shelter. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond has the story. In an exclusive interview from King Abdullah II Air Base, Queen Rania of Jordan speaks with Amanpour about airdrops of aid and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. CNN’s Eleni Giokos sits down with Jihad Azour, director of the IMF’s Middle East and Central Asia department, who explains how youth are shaping economies across the region. CNN’s Fareed Zakaria discusses the history of the relationship Arab countries have had with Israel throughout the years and how a recent shift in Arab politics could be a silver lining in the region’s foreign relations. The U.S. and Jordan conducted new airdrops of aid on Saturday, as U.N. officials warn of a looming famine in Gaza. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. Christiane Amanpour speaks to Israeli historian and writer Fania Oz-Salzberger about the morality of this war. Benny Gantz, Israeli war cabinet minister and political rival of Netanyahu, wraps up his visit to DC after meeting top officials. CNN’s Alex Marquardt reports. Saudi Arabia said tourist numbers climbed above 100 million last year, but the big aim for the Kingdom is to attract more international travelers. CNN’s Becky Anderson asks the Saudi tourism minister how they’ll do that. Caretaker PM of the PA Mohammad Shtayyeh says that the Palestinians want elections but also an end to occupation. Palestinian journalist Dalia Hatuqa and staff writer for “The Seventh Eye” Oren Persico discuss how Israel and Gaza view each other amid the current conflict. Daiana Al-Bukhari is a displaced Palestinian living in Rafah and is using Instagram to document the struggles of accessing simple necessities like food and water. Saudi Arabia said tourist numbers climbed above 100 million last year, but the big aim for the Kingdom is to attract more international travelers. Becky Anderson asks the Saudi tourism minister how they’ll do that. CNN was at the inaugural event of one of the world’s biggest tech shows, which casts a spotlight on the region’s thriving startup ecosystem. Maha Yahya, director of the Carnegie Middle East Center, speaks to Richard Quest about the risk of an escalation between Israel and Hezbollah. There has been a flood of regional IPOs in 2023, with the UAE and its Gulf Cooperation Council neighbors drumming up capital through more and more private international investment. The IDF says Israel will take the necessary measures to protect civilians if it decides to expand military operations in the southernmost Gazan city of Rafah. CNN’s Elliott Gotkine reports. Negotiations for the release of Israeli hostages have resumed in Qatar between Israel and Hamas mediators. Axios Journalist Barak Ravid joins Bianna Golodryga to discuss. The US government’s top humanitarian aid official will travel to Israel, the West Bank, and Jordan this week in an effort to address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza that is veering into catastrophe. The United States and the United Kingdom carried out strikes against an array of Houthi targets in Yemen, according to two US officials, marking the fourth time the international coalition has launched a combined attack on the Iran-backed rebel ... The hostile relationship is central to fears of a wider Middle East war. CNN’s Fareed Zakaria examines its past, present and future. Israel will expand military operations in the southernmost Gazan city of Rafah if hostages held by Hamas are not returned by the start of Ramadan, war cabinet minister Benny Gantz has warned. CNN’s Scott McLean reports from Istanbul on comments by Israeli war cabinet member Benny Gantz, who warned Sunday that Israeli forces will expand military operations in Rafah if hostages being held by Hamas are not returned by Ramadan. Richard Haass, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, explains to Fareed why he thinks Israel-Hamas talks have stalled—and assesses whether the war will widen: “Bad situations can get worse. In many ways, that’s the character of ... Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu says there is “a lot of space” north of Rafah for Palestinians to flee if Israel pushes forward with military operations there. But most Palestinians in Rafah say they came from areas that were evacuated in the north. ... Gazans are fleeing the southernmost city of Rafah and heading north amid intensified airstrikes and an anticipated Israeli ground operation, according to a UN body. Many Palestinians see Biden’s push for a two-state solution as little more than lip service. When Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, the price of oil jumped to over $100 a barrel. But despite the threat of an escalation of tensions in the Middle East and attacks on Red Sea shipping, oil markets have yet to see such moves this time around. Egypt is boosting its security presence at its border with the Gaza Strip, wary of a spillover of Israel’s war on Hamas onto its territory should the Israeli military begin its ground assault on the enclave’s southernmost city, Rafah, where more than half of ... Frida Ghitis writes on the unwinnable diplomatic dilemma for Israel in the Hamas stronghold of Rafah. Unveiled online on February 13, the annual MENA’s 50 Best Restaurants list was dominated by Dubai, with 18 restaurants on the rankings. The 50 Best has unveiled its 2024 list of the best restaurants in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) — take a look at the top 10 dining spots in the region. CNN’s Nada Bashir explains how many Palestinians are fleeing Rafah to move further north to central Gaza, as warnings surge of a ground offensive in Rafah. Some of the images in this report are disturbing. Christiane Amanpour speaks with former Jordanian Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher about the situation for Palestinian people in Gaza. Christiane Amanpour speaks to former Jordanian foreign minister, Marwan Muasher, about what he sees as the future for Gaza and the region. Iran must get better control of its Arab proxies, or they could end up dragging it into a disastrous conflict, writes Hussein Ibish. Christiane Amanpour speaks to journalist and author, Sarah Helm, about the potential consequences of an Israeli ground incursion into Rafah in Gaza. Twelve Middle Eastern football associations have called for Israel’s national team to be banned over the war on Hamas in Gaza, in a letter seen by CNN. Randa Slim of the Middle East Institute explains to Fareed how the US bombing campaign in Iraq — on pro-Iranian militias — could lead to a chaotic expulsion of American forces from the country. As one of the world’s fastest-growing economies, Saudi Arabia has witnessed an incredible transformation over the last decade. CNN’s Richard Quest spoke to Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Economy at the World Economic forum to learn more about the ... Three soldiers from the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces and an officer from the Bahrain Defense Force have been killed in an attack at the General Gordon military base in Mogadishu. Christiane Amanpour remembers the Iranians hungry and hopeful for change - and their fight that continues today - 45 years after the Islamic Revolution. ICRC speaks to Isa Soares amid growing concern for civilians in Rafah Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says IDF soldiers will soon shift the focus of their offensive to Rafah, a city close to the southern border with Egypt where more than half of Gaza’s population of 2.2 million has fled. CNN’s Katie Polglase examines ... While fighting in the Middle East rages on, Israelis are trying to cope with a roller coaster of emotions, as CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. Displaced Palestinians crowded into tents in Rafah are waiting with dread for an anticipated Israeli ground assault on the city – with nowhere left to flee once troops move in. As airstrikes continue, survivors are forced to relocate to find safety. Rafah in the south was considered a safe zone, but now that region also is under threat. Nada Bashir reports. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Saudi Arabia on Monday, the first stop on his latest trip to the Middle East as the Biden administration seeks to advance an Israel-Hamas hostage deal, get more aid into Gaza and ensure the war doesn’t ... During his tour of the Middle East, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is expected to travel to Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Qatar, Israel and the West Bank. The U.S. strikes in the region, the Israel-Hamas war, and humanitarian aid for Gaza are expected to be ... U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is headed to the Middle East where tensions are high after U.S. strikes in the region. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports. As attacks spread across the Middle East, Vali Nasr of Johns Hopkins and Mina Al-Oraibi of The National join Fareed to talk about the complex interplay between the US, Iran, Israel, the Palestinians, and Arab countries. Fareed talks with Vali Nasr, professor of Middle East studies and international affairs at Johns Hopkins University, and Mina Al-Oraibi, editor-in-chief of The National, about how much power Iran has over the Houthis in Yemen and militias in Iraq — and ... Yemen’s Iran-backed Houthi rebels are stepping up their strikes on ships in the Red Sea, which they say are revenge against Israel for its military campaign in Gaza. Maha Yahya with the Carnegie Middle East Center explains why the latest U.S. strikes have made an already precarious position in the Middle East even more tense. It was meant to sound devastating, and likely felt so to the pro-Iranian militia on the receiving end. But Friday night’s airstrikes against over 80 targets inside Iraq and Syria were — so far — a comparatively limited response to the worst loss of US ... The U.S. military says it feels “really confident” about the precision of the strikes it carried out on dozens of targets in Iraq and Syria. CNN’s Lynda Kinkade discusses the operation with Charles Lister from the Middle East Institute. Chad Myers reports on the weather conditions in the Middle East, as the U.S. military says weather in the region played a role in the timing of airstrikes. US launches airstrikes in Iraq and Syria in response to an Iran-backed militant drone strike on a US military outpost in Jordan. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. The White House has set its sights on Israel’s settlers, a controversial movement that has grown in power over the years and is seen by the outside world as a major impediment to peace between Israel and the Palestinians. An Iran-backed militia in Iraq has said it will continue to strike United States forces as the Biden administration considers how to retaliate against a drone attack on its base in Jordan that killed three US service members last week. Once seen in the Middle East as a menacing Iranian proxy, the Houthi group’s fortunes have changed since Israel launched its devastating war on Gaza. Israeli aircraft and artillery have again intensified attacks on Khan Younis in southern Gaza, according to reporters in the enclave. The death of three US service members in Jordan Sunday, along with more than 40 injured, is just the latest – and deadliest – example of Iranian-backed militias targeting American forces in the Middle East. Mark Dubowitz and Jonathan Schanzer call for ... Former Israeli Intelligence chief Ami Ayalon says 70% of Israelis would accept a ceasefire in exchange for a hostage release. Saudi Arabia is still an unknown quantity for many would-be travelers. We asked some of the people who know it best about the best things to see and do there. U.S. President Joe Biden says he’s decided on a response to the strike on a U.S. base in Jordan that killed 3 service members. CNN Senior Political Commentator Adam Kinzinger and professor at Johns Hopkins University Vali Nasr discuss the complex ... The Biden administration has a regional war on its hands in the Middle East and needs to change its strategy fast, writes Peter Bergen. US policy in the Middle East can no longer be described as an attempt to stop the Israel-Gaza conflict from triggering a bigger regional war. That hope died weeks ago. President Biden says he has decided how to respond to the attack which killed three U.S. troops in Jordan, but he has not yet provided details. Christiane Amanpour speaks to former Republican Congressman Adam Kinzinger about what the U.S. ... A road trip along Saudi Arabia’s Gulf coastline offers a surprisingly varied driving experience along wide open roads, through deserts, towns and oases. The US response to the drone attack in Jordan that killed and wounded US service members Sunday is likely to be more powerful than previous retaliatory strikes in Iraq and Syria, officials told CNN. Tensions are rising in the Middle East after three U.S. servicemen were killed in a drone attack in Jordan. Christiane Amanpour speaks to a former U.S. Ambassador to Cairo and Tel Aviv about how the U.S. might respond. US Air Force Col. Cedric Leighton (Ret.) explains what he thinks is the best option for how the US could deal with Iran and respond to the killing of three US troops in a drone attack in Jordan. The deaths of three American troops in a drone attack Sunday has thrust the United States deeper into the Middle East conflict and lent fresh urgency to efforts at securing the release of hostages in Gaza in exchange for a prolonged halt in the ... The U.S. has vowed to retaliate after three troops were killed in a drone strike on a remote base in Jordan. Sr. Vice President of the Center for Strategic and International studies Jon Alterman discusses the implications for the Biden administration. The US, having been trying to pivot away from the Middle East, finds itself drawn back into the region. It is now strengthening its military posture. CNN’s 5 Things brings you the news you need to know every morning. Three US Army soldiers were killed and more than 30 service members were injured in a drone attack overnight on a small US outpost in Jordan, US officials told CNN, marking the first time US troops have been killed by enemy fire in the Middle East ... Malcolm Davis, Senior Analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, joins Rosemary Church to discuss how the United States can avoid further escalation in the Middle East while responding to the deadly attack on U.S. forces in Jordan. Three American service members were killed in a drone attack on a US outpost in Jordan, marking the first time US troops have been killed by enemy fire in the Mideast since the beginning of the Gaza war. Follow for live updates. Three US Army soldiers were killed and at least two dozen service members were injured in a drone attack overnight on a small US outpost in Jordan, US officials told CNN, marking the first time US troops have been killed by enemy fire in the Middle ... Retired US Army Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling and The New Yorker’s Robin Wright talk with Fareed about the compounding crises in the Middle East and the possibility that the Israel-Hamas war will erupt into a larger conflict. Three US Army soldiers were killed and more than 30 service members were injured in a drone attack overnight on a small US outpost in Jordan, US officials told CNN, marking the first time US troops have been killed by enemy fire in the Middle East ... An oil tanker went up in flames in the Gulf of Aden after being hit by a Houthi missile. The Iran-backed Yemeni group claimed responsibility, saying the attack was in response to the “American-British aggression against our country” and in support ... Israel says 24 soldiers were killed in Gaza on Monday, including 21 in a single incident. Former Palestinian Authority PM Salam Fayyad joins Christiane Amanpour to discuss a possible future for Gaza and the Palestinian people. Hundreds of displaced people are trying to leave Khan Younis, with reports of “panic” amid ongoing Israeli bombardment as forces surround the southern city. Follow for live updates. As the IDF focuses its offensive in Khan Younis, Palestinians in southern Gaza are struggling to find medical support, shelter, and food. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. Amid frequent fire from Hezbollah, CNN’s Nic Robertson reports on the daily struggles of Israelis who live near the country’s northern border with Lebanon. The first Arab woman to summit K2 takes CNN on a tour of Al Soudah mountain. Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan tells Fareed that for the Middle East to see true peace and stability, the Palestinians must be given a state. Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian tells Fareed that the expanding violence across the Middle East stems directly from Israel’s occupation of the Palestinian territories — and why he doesn’t consider Hamas a terrorist group. Several Iranian military advisers are reported to have been killed in what Iran said was an Israeli missile strike on a building in Damascus. The Middle East has seen an uptick in attacks in Iraq, Syria, Yemen, and Lebanon. Robin Wright, Contributing Writer at The New Yorker, joins Michael Holmes to discuss the significance of these attacks and the motivations behind them. Iran vows to punish Israel after a missile strike in Syria kills five members of its Islamic Revolutionary Guard. Meanwhile, Iranian-backed militants attack Al-Asad Air Base in Iraq, injuring U.S. personnel. CNN’s Nic Robertson has more on these attacks. At least five Iranian military advisors and a number of Syrian forces were killed in an Israeli missile strike on a building in Damascus on Saturday, Iran’s semi-official Tasnim news agency reported, in another sign of building hostilities in the Middle East as ... Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan tells Fareed that Saudi Arabia is only open to normalizing relations with Israel if there is an irreversible process to create a Palestinian state. Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S., Princess Reema bint Bandar Al-Saud, speaks about the Israel-Hamas war with CNN’s Becky Anderson at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Pakistan and Iran have both conducted strikes on each other’s territories in an unprecedented escalation of hostilities between the two neighbors, at a time when tensions have risen sharply across the Middle East and beyond. British Foreign Secretary David Cameron called for an “immediate pause” in hostilities between Israel and Hamas and weighed in on international aid to Ukraine. CNN senior international correspondent Ivan Watson reports on Iran and Pakistan engaging in territorial strikes and explores the implications for the Middle East. Pakistan carried out a series of deadly military strikes on what it said were separatist militant hideouts inside Iran, in the latest incident across their shared border that has sent tensions between the two neighbors soaring. The US carried out another round of strikes in Yemen against the Houthis, according to two US officials, marking the fourth time the US has struck the Iran-backed rebel group in less than a week. Attacks by Iranian-backed groups in the Middle East won’t stop until Israel’s war on Hamas in Gaza ends, Tehran’s top diplomat warned on Wednesday, as tensions across the region threaten to spiral into wider conflict. Isa Soares speaks with Director of International Security studies at the Royal United Services Institute Neil Melvin about the raised fears of increased regional conflict spreading beyond the Israel-Hamas war. Pakistan has strongly condemned an Iranian airstrike inside its borders that killed two children, calling it an “unprovoked violation of its airspace” and warning of retaliation. Prince Turki al Faisal, a former Saudi diplomat and intelligence chief, tells Christiane Amanpour the first step to peace is to “stop the killing.” Christiane Amanpour speaks to former Saudi Ambassador to the UK and United States, Prince Turki Al Faisal. As fears grow that conflict will spread in the Middle East, Paula Hancocks looks at the timeline of events after Hamas’ October 7 attacks on Israel. Retired Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling reacts to Iran launching missiles in northern Iraq, Syria and Pakistan in the latest escalation of hostilities in the Middle East where Israel’s ongoing war in Gaza risks spiraling into a wider regional conflict. A group of Israelis – once fringe, but now in the governing coalition – seeks full Israeli control of Gaza, plans to resettle the territory and even expel Palestinians. Its ideas are permeating mainstream debate. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports on growing concerns in parts of the international community over the Israeli government’s plans for Gaza once the war ends. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards on Monday launched ballistic missiles at what it said was a spy base for Israel’s intelligence agency Mossad in northern Iraq, and at “anti-Iran terror groups” in Syria, in the latest escalation of hostilities that further risks ... CNN’s Paula Hancocks reports on the deadly Iranian missile strikes in Iraq and the Houthis’ vow to retaliate against those who attack Yemen. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps says it attacked a spy base for Israel’s intelligence agency Mossad in northern Iraq, and went after “anti-Iran terror groups” in Syria. Just weeks before Hamas launched its October 7 attack on Israel, Saudi Arabia said it was inching closer to normalizing diplomatic ties with the Jewish state. Despite three months of war that have left more than 23,000 Palestinians dead and the Arab ... Tensions widen in the Middle East as the White House says it believes Houthis in Yemen will retaliate after recent strikes, as Israel marks 100 days since the deadly Hamas attacks. CNN’s Clare Sebastian explains. Fawaz Gerges, professor of international relations at the London School of Economics, joins Fareed to discuss the recent US/UK strikes against the Houthis in Yemen and the possibility of a regional war in the Middle East. From London to Washington, D.C., protesters around the world gathered to show support for Palestinians and call for a ceasefire in Gaza. The border between Egypt and Gaza must be closed to stop the flow of ‘military equipment and other deadly weapons’, the Israeli Prime Minister said Saturday. CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speaks with Hakim Almasmari, former editor-in-chief of the Yemen Post, about the escalation in the Middle East after the U.S. carries out more strikes against Houthis in Yemen The U.S. and the U.K. are standing by their decision to strike dozens of targets in Yemen as a deterrent against Houthi rebels, who have continually attacked commercial shipping vessels in the Red Sea. Ibrahim Jalal, with the Middle East ... The stakes in the Middle East have rarely been higher. Israel’s military continued operations across Gaza City on Friday, with the enclave’s Civil Defense Spokesman saying Israeli artillery targeted civilian housing. A top UN official in charge of relief operations in Gaza has painted a dire picture of conditions in the north of the enclave. CNN’s Paula Hancocks looks at how Iranian proxies complicate U.S. diplomacy in the Middle East. Peter Bergen argues that President Joe Biden has launched arguably the most consequential military attack of this administration, striking multiple Houthi targets in Yemen. Bergen unpacks the roots of Houthi militancy and the role of Iran in the ... U.S. Natl. Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby speaks to CNN’S Becky Anderson about the U.S. strategy of striking Houthis in Yemen. US and British airstrikes against Iran-backed militants in Yemen represent a significant escalation of the conflict in the Middle East – and come despite weeks of efforts by President Joe Biden to head off a wider war. CNN’s Christiane Amanpour talks to Dr. Sanam Vakil, director of the Middle East and North Africa Programme at Chatham House, about the possibility of Israel’s war on Hamas escalating into a wider conflict. American diplomat Antony Blinken says there progress has been made during his latest visit to the Middle East, his fourth since the October 7th attacks. Ahmed Aboudouh, an associate fellow at Chatham House, breaks down how the U.S. and UK strike on the houthi fighters in Yemen will impact tensions in the region. Nic Robertson reports that missile and drone storage sites were targeted in U.S. and UK strikes, and that Houthis are promising to respond CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports on the details of the strikes by the US and UK militaries against multiple Houthi targets in Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen. Iran seized an oil tanker in the Gulf of Oman and is moving it to an Iranian port in retaliation for the US confiscating the same vessel and its oil last year. The American oil industry is on high alert for an escalation of the violence in the Middle East that disrupts the flow of oil out of the region. Dr. Sanam Vakil, the director of the Middle East and North Africa Programme at Chatham House, talks to Christiane Amanpour about the growing fears of a wider conflict amid Israel’s war on Hamas. Chatham House expert Sanam Vakil feels a “deep concern” Israel’s Gaza war could expand to Lebanon. As a member of the Jewish, Arab or Muslim communities in America, have you felt the need to adjust your daily life amid heightened fears of hate-motivated incidents? If you’re willing to share your story, we want to hear from you. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports that many of Gaza’s cultural treasures and priceless landmarks, dating back thousands of years, have been destroyed. Becky Anderson breaks down U.S Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s trip around the Middle East as Israel’s war on Gaza rages on The U.S. Secretary of State is on a high-stakes trip to the Middle East in hopes of keeping the Israel-Hamas war from spreading. CNN’s Melissa Bell reports on Blinken’s trip from Paris. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will be the latest in a long parade of Biden national security officials to meet face to face with the Israeli government when he arrives in Tel Aviv this week for his fifth visit since the October 7 attack by Hamas. A view from the ground in Gaza. UNRWA Deputy Director Scott Anderson describes the lives of displaced Palestinians in Rafah. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is on a tour of the Middle East aiming to prevent the war between Israel and Hamas from spreading in the region. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. CNN’s Nic Robertson looks at U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s trip to the Middle East as tensions grow in the region. Israel has intensified its airstrikes and ground combat in central and southern Gaza. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports. During his tour, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to discuss the next phase of Israel’s military campaign, and plans for Gaza after the fighting is over. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. The danger of growing conflict in the Middle East is rising and threatens to entangle the United States, argues Peter Bergen, who cites actions by the Houthis in Yemen, ISIS attacks in Iran and the intensifying tension between Israel and Hezbollah. Bianna Golodryga speaks to journalist Kim Ghattas and security expert Colin Clarke about the risks of a wider war in the region as Israel’s war on Hamas continues. Isa Soares speaks with French Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna about how countries stepping up diplomatic efforts to prevent a wider conflict in the Middle East. US officials are grappling with how to respond to escalating attacks by Iran-backed proxy groups on US troops and ships in the Red Sea without sparking a broader war in the Middle East. CNN explores how this year is set to be a big one for several Gulf nations. The U.S. is working to prevent a wider war in the Middle East.  CNN’s Lynda Kinkade speaks with CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger. The U.S. is grappling with how to respond to Iran’s influence in and around the Middle East amid efforts to keep the war between Israel and Hamas from spreading. CNN’s Oren Liebermann has the latest developments. Anxiety mounts every day that a full-scale Middle East war could erupt from the flames of the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza. Israel and Hamas are at war, after the Palestinian militant group launched surprise cross-border raids from Gaza on October 7, killing more than 1,400 people and taking hostages. CNN’s Rosemary Church speaks with Mohanad Hage Ali, the deputy director for research at the Malcolm H. Kerr Carnegie Middle East Center, about the attacks in Iran and Lebanon this week. In the wake of a Hamas official’s assassination in Beirut, Lebanon’s Foreign Minister, Abdallah Bou Habib, is in Washington for emergency meetings. He joins Christiane Amanpour to discuss fears of a wider regional war. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Abdallah Bou Habib, the Lebanese foreign minister, who says it’s time to “give peace a chance” in the Middle East. CNN’s Natasha Bertrand on sources saying the U.S. has reached an extension agreement with Qatar to keep operating Al Udeid Air Base In the hills near Tanomah, a city in southwestern Saudi Arabia, climbing instructor Abdulrahman Alabdu is pioneering new cliff routes where few people have ever been Also known as al-Hijr or Mada’in Saleh, Hegra is the crown jewel of Saudi Arabia’s archaeological attractions and was the first place in the country inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage list. Saudi Arabia is spending billions on transforming its Red Sea coastline with new resorts, eco retreats and diving venues, plus an international airport, expected to unlock the region to big-spending tourists. The United States has quietly reached an agreement that extends its military presence at a sprawling base in Qatar for another 10 years, three US defense officials and another official familiar with the agreement told CNN. The UN has expressed alarm after more than 100,000 people arrived in Rafah in recent days, now the most densely populated part of Gaza. CNN’s Nada Bashir has more on what conditions are like inside the enclave. Palestinians displaced inside Gaza as Israel pushes on with its ground offensive describe cramped living conditions, sky-high prices for food, children going hungry and poor sanitation, amid severe limits on food and supplies entering the coastal strip. Some wonder how long the war can be kept from spreading. Kim Brunhuber speaks with Sultan Barakat, director of the Global Institute for Strategic Research, about the situation. For first-time visitors, especially ones who aren’t familiar with the Middle East or Muslim-majority countries, it’s critical to do some research before setting off to Saudi Arabia. The leaders of Egypt and Jordan are calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza to allow humanitarian aid to reach people in the enclave. Jordan’s King Abdullah went to Cairo on Wednesday to meet with Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Kim ... Hezbollah claimed it carried out attacks targeting multiple barracks across northern Israel on Thursday. CNN’s Nada Bashir has details on the clashes. The Houthi rebels in Yemen are attacking ships in the Red Sea to repay their Iranian backers, argues Yoel Guzansky of Israel’s Institute for National Security Studies. From hosting Jordan’s king to floating a potential peace plan, Egypt is stepping up diplomatic efforts to help civilians in Gaza Escalating attacks on US troops and commercial shipping and incidents often involving Iran and its proxies are causing new concerns that Israel’s war in Gaza could widen into a regional conflagration with grave political and economic consequences. Escalating attacks on U.S. troops in Syria and Iraq and attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea are causing concerns that Israel’s war in Gaza could widen into a regional conflagration. CNN’s John Vause discusses the situation with CNN ... CNN’s Bianca Nobilo speaks to Nebal Farsakh, spokesperson for the Palestine Red Crescent Society, about the latest Israeli strikes in Gaza. Church bells echo through the labyrinth-like streets of Bethlehem. With Christmas approaching, the city in the Israeli-occupied West Bank should be teeming with visitors. But this year, it is almost deserted. CNN’s Richard Quest speaks to Mark Regev, Senior Advisor to Israel’s Prime Minister, about the U.N. Security Council’s new Gaza resolution. The US is poised to ease restrictions on the sale of offensive weapons to Saudi Arabia, officials told CNN, because the Biden administration believes the Kingdom has abided by a US and UN-brokered truce with Yemen for nearly two years. CNN’s Nima Elbagir reports on the scale of Israel’s bombardment of Gaza and the impact of the hundreds of 2,000-pound bombs raining down on civilians caught up in the conflict. The Palestinian health ministry says Israeli attacks have killed around 20,000 people and injured another 55,000 in Gaza. CNN’s Nima Elbagir reports on how hospitals and morgues are overwhelmed. A former U.S. defense secretary joins CNN to discuss the Houthi rebels and their presence in the Red Sea. For more than two months, Israel has been fighting a lower-intensity conflict on a second, northern front against the powerful Lebanese militia Hezbollah CNN’s Fareed Zakaria details the danger of an American retreat from the world. US and coalition forces in Iraq came under attack on Thursday afternoon, as the senior general overseeing US forces in the Middle East was visiting the region to meet with American troops and key leaders. The U.S. National Security Adviser presses Israeli officials about transitioning to “lower intensity operations” in their war against Hamas. Nearly half of the air-to-ground munitions Israel has used in its war with Hamas in Gaza have been unguided, according to a new US intelligence assessment. CNN’s Rosemary Church discusses the impact on U.S.-Israeli relations with analyst Adam ... Christiane Amanpour speaks with Fawaz Gerges, who is a professor at the London School of Economics, about his perspective on the Israel-Hamas war as a scholar specializing in Middle East studies. Israel’s defense minister claims soldiers are now surrounding the last two Hamas strongholds in northern Gaza. CNN’s Alex Marquardt reports. Amid a warning from Qatar’s leader about the possible unintended consequences of the war, CNN’s John Vause interviews Aaron David Miller from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Since the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel, the Gulf state of Qatar has come under fire by Israeli officials, American politicians and media outlets for sending hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to Gaza, which is governed by the Palestinian militant ... Isa Soares speaks with CNN Chief International Investigative Correspondent Nima Elbagir in Tel Aviv about Qatar’s involvement with Hamas. Speaking at a panel at the Doha Forum, Jordan’s Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi warns of long-term risks for the region from the Israel-Hamas war Speaking remotely to Becky Anderson at the Doha Forum in Qatar, Iranian Foreign Minister Amir Abdollahian that the solution to the Palestinian question involves a referendum and that Israel does not believe in a two-state solution Former member of the Knesset and tech entrepreneur Erel Margalit reacts to the killing of journalist Issam Abdallah and discusses future security prospects for Gaza. Fawaz Gerges tells Christiane Amanpour why he has “no trust in American foreign policy anymore.” Israel’s National Security Adviser, Tzachi Hanegbi, has said that Israel is prepared to act against efforts by Houthi rebels in Yemen to disrupt shipping in the Red Sea – if the international community fails to do so. The war between Israel and Hamas has put Turkey and its president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in a challenging diplomatic situation. CNN’s Scott McLean looks at the state of relations between the two countries. The Israeli military continues to fight in Khan Younis in southern Gaza, which it says is a ‘main stronghold’ of Hamas. CNN’s Alex Marquardt has the latest. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres invoked a rarely used but powerful tool in his determined push for a ceasefire in Gaza, causing outrage among Israeli diplomats. The Israeli prime minister issues a stark warning to Lebanon-based Hezbollah after weeks of cross-border clashes. CNN’s John Vause talks to American University of Beirut’s Rami Khouri about the escalating tensions. Top UN officials are warning of an “apocalyptic” situation in war-torn Gaza with “no place safe to go” for civilians, as Israel’s war with Hamas spreads to the south, where many had previously sought refuge. Israel’s military reported intense fighting in southern Gaza Tuesday as it surrounded the city of Khan Younis. The IDF also said it had encircled the northern Jabalya refugee camp, which it claims is a Hamas stronghold. Follow for live updates. Residents living on the border of Israel and Lebanon are caught up in exchanges of fire. Ivan Watson reports. Russian President Vladimir Putin said relations with the United Arab Emirates were at an all-time high during his first visit to the Middle East since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine nearly two years ago. Russian President Vladimir Putin is on a rare trip to the Middle East, stopping in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, where oil prices and Israel-Hamas war are on the agenda. CNN’s Fred Pleitgen reports. The Israeli military says it’s closing in on Khan Younis in southern Gaza. Israel’s Chief of General Staff says the IDF have moved to the third phase of the ground operations. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond has the details. CNN’s Alex Marquardt brings us the latest on the Israeli military’s campaign in southern Gaza. The repeated attacks from Houthis and other Iran-backed militia groups in the Mideast require a more forceful response from the US, writes Frida Ghitis. As Israel’s war with Hamas spreads into Gaza’s south, top officials at the United Nations describe “apocalyptic” scenes. The head of Israel’s armored corps talks to CNN’s Jeremy Diamond about how tanks will be used in the next phase of the incursion into Gaza. US forces killed at least five Iran-backed militia members in a drone strike after the US “identified an imminent attack” was likely to be launched by militia forces in Kirkuk, Iraq, on Sunday, a US official said. Marketplace Middle East explores how the UAE’s capital aims to moves away from fossil fuels, with an ambitious industrial strategy. As Israel expands its military operation in Gaza, hospitals in the enclave are struggling to keep up with the immense need. People are being treated in the open, and courtyards are full of body bags. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports The Israel Defense Forces expand ground operations to include all of Gaza, including the south. CNN’s Matthew Chance takes a look at the impact on people trapped inside the enclave. Fareed talks to Amaney Jamal, dean of Princeton’s School of Public and International Affairs, about her most recent public opinion survey of Gazans – and what it tells us about how the war could end. Laila Harrak speaks to Tuqa Nusairat, from the Atlantic Council, about Israel’s war strategy coming under pressure from international partners. The U.S. Defense Secretary says Israel has a moral obligation to protect civilians in Gaza, and French ... The Israel Defense Forces resumed combat operations following a seven-day truce and accused Hamas of violating the truce first by firing rockets toward Israel. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports on the new horrors in Gaza as airstrikes resume. Christiane Amanpour asks two avowed Israeli & Palestinian peace activists what happens when the dust finally settles in Israel and Gaza. Much of Gaza has been left a wasteland since Israel began its military campaign.  CNN’s Ben Wedeman speaks to people living there, who are struggling to survive. The traditional scarf, worn across many parts of the Middle East, has come to be identified in particular as a symbol of Palestinian identity and resistance. The temporary truce paused the bombardment of Gaza, revealing the destruction left behind after weeks of airstrikes. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. Fareed hears from two esteemed foreign policy experts—Robin Wright of The New Yorker and the Wilson Center and Richard Haass of the Council on Foreign Relations—about the regional response to the Israel-Hamas war and whether a wider conflict ... What lies down the road in the conflict between Israel and Hamas?  Laila Harrak speaks to Daniel Levy, President of the U.S./Middle East Project about what could happen next. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports on the reaction of Palestinians in Gaza to the temporary truce. “I am on my way to see my home… my family that is under the rubble,” Mahmoud Moharram, a displaced Palestinian, said as he walked with a group of residents hoping to return to northern Gaza while the lull in fighting holds. Ben Wedeman speaks to survivors of previous wars now living in the Shatila Palestinian refugee camp in Beirut, Lebanon, about the situation in Gaza now. Families pressure Israel’s prime minister to get a deal done on hostages held by Hamas, and neonatal babies from Gaza are evacuated to Egypt. But as Nic Robertson reports, another hospital comes under fire. At least 12,700 Palestinians have been killed as a result of Israeli attacks since October 7, according to figures from the Palestinian Ministry of Health in the West Bank, which draws its data from Hamas-run health authorities in Gaza. The world must “must act urgently” to stem the conflict in Gaza, China’s top diplomat said Monday during a meeting with officials from Arab and Muslim majority nations, as Beijing steps up its efforts to play a role in establishing ceasefire in the ... Gaza’s largest hospital, Al-Shifa, has become a flashpoint in the conflict that began when Hamas militants crossed the border into Israel on October 7, killing around 1,200 people. Whether they have family in Gaza or the West Bank, Palestinian Americans here in northern New Jersey live with an unrelenting sense of dread The first plane carrying children from Gaza who need urgent medical care has arrived in Abu Dhabi, according to the UAE’s state-run news agency. CNN’s Nada Bashir gives a closer look at how families are surviving in the central Gazan city of Deir al-Balah. CNN’s Nada Bashir shows us the impact of Israel’s bombing campaign, and why there are growing fears about what could come next. Jordan’s Foreign Minister, Ayman Safadi, tells Isa Soares his country’s mobile hospital in Gaza has been hit. The US is striking targets in the Middle East affiliated with Iran following attacks on US forces. CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports. Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Gilad Erdan joins The Lead. Emirates President Tim Clark says he thinks travel to Israel will recover after the conflict. Behind tables laden with more than 50 assault rifles, Israel’s far-right national security minister, Itamar Ben Gvir, smiled at a crowd of people who had come to the coastal city of Caesarea for a ceremony to receive the firearms. As the Israel-Hamas war nears 40 days, the regional conflict in the Middle East is expanding. CNN’s John Vause interviews The New Yorker’s Robin Wright. The UK and France have seen fierce protests as the conflict between Israel and Hamas stokes tensions across the globe. Christiane Amanpour speaks to Guardian newspaper columnist Jonathan Freedland, and Mona Siddiqui, Professor of Islamic ... The U.S. has launched a new round of strikes in Syria against targets linked to Iran.  CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports from Tel Aviv, Israel. The US carried out another set of strikes against targets affiliated with Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in eastern Syria, according to Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, following continued attacks on US forces in the region. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres suggests to Fareed that a “reinvigorated Palestinian Authority” could run Gaza after the war, which could pave the way for a two-state solution. Israeli forces trade fire with Hezbollah on the border with Lebanon. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. In a spirit of unity, Jews and Arabs are working together to provide aid to Israel’s Bedouin community. CNN’s Ed Lavandera has the report. Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi has arrived in Saudi Arabia for a summit on the Israel-Hamas war, telling reporters that “Palestine is the most important issue in the Islamic world.” CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speak with Peter Layton, Visiting Fellow at Griffith Asia Institute about what Israel needs to accomplish in Gaza before it possibly loses international support. Leaders of Arab and Islamic nations are gathering in Saudi Arabia for an emergency summit in response to the situation in Gaza. Laila Harrak speaks to Trita Parsi from the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft about the summit and what to expect ... CNN’s Clare Sebastian has the latest on Israel’s strikes in Gaza as the Arab League and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation prepare to meet in an extraordinary session in Saudi Arabia. CNN’s Ben Wedeman breaks down the diplomatic efforts to end Israel-Hamas war. The Biden administration has received stark warnings from American diplomats in the Arab world that its strong support for Israel’s destructive and deadly military campaign in Gaza “is losing us Arab publics for a generation,” according to a ... Israel had agreed to daily four-hour pauses of military operations in areas of northern Gaza, the White House said Thursday. A senior Israeli official said the “tactical localized pauses” would give people in the north the ability to travel south for aid ... Iran has reiterated that despite its financial backing and support for Hamas and other proxy groups in the region, it does not direct any of their actions, the Islamic Republic’s United Nations ambassador told CNN in an interview. Israeli has intensified its ground and air campaign on Gaza in recent days, with officials claiming to have reached “the heart” of the besieged enclave’s main city. Former Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad says Hamas cannot be defeated by military action because they are a political movement. He spoke to Christiane Amanpour about the situation in Gaza. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on those who are leaving northern Gaza – and those who are staying behind. Two US F-15 fighter jets conducted an airstrike on a weapons storage facility in eastern Syria used by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and affiliated groups, the Pentagon announced Wednesday. The Pentagon says it struck a weapons storage facility used by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. CNN’s Natasha Bertrand reports. The Israel military said that time limited windows for Gazans to evacuate south along Salah al-Din Street were in place. The evacuation order comes as the Israel Defense Forces says it is fighting Hamas inside Gaza City. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on ... An unmanned US military drone was shot down off the coast of Yemen by Houthi forces, a defense official tells CNN. As Israel says its forces have reached the heart of Gaza, the country is also facing increasing diplomatic pressure to agree to a humanitarian pause, as CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. Daniel Kurtzer was America’s ambassador to Israel and Egypt. Now he says “tough and direct conversation” is needed to settle the underlying dispute. The U.S. and Israel appear to be at odds on Gaza’s future. Senior adviser to Benjamin Netanyahu joins CNN’s Bianna Golodryga and Zain Asher. Members of African ethnic groups in Sudan’s Darfur region appear to have been rounded up by members of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces and other Arab militias, according to videos and images verified and geolocated by CNN that ... As the humanitarian situation in Gaza worsens, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warns the conflict is becoming a “crisis of humanity.” CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports. Waving white flags and holding identification papers aloft, residents of northern Gaza were seen fleeing south during a four-hour window allotted by the Israel Defense Forces for civilians to escape Tuesday. Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said on Tuesday that IDF troops are targeting Hamas infrastructure and commanders in Gaza City.  Elliott Gotkine reports. Egypt has been a key diplomatic player in the Israel-Hamas war, helping to open the Rafah border crossing to get some people out of Gaza. CNN’s Melissa Bell reports. A woman and her three grandchildren were killed in an Israeli drone strike on their car in southern Lebanon on Sunday. Israel says it’s looking into claims civilians were in the vehicle, as CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. C.I.A Director Bill Burns travels to Israel and Secretary of State Antony Blinken wraps his Middle East tour as the U.S. seeks to find a solution to the Israel-Hamas war. The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace’s H.A. Hellyer joins Rosemary Church ... Yoav Peled says he has started wondering if the world has gone mad. Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi discusses his concerns about escalating violence in the West Bank, which neighbors Jordan, and he tells her that his country hopes to make further aid drops in Gaza. Communities in northern Israel empty out amid fears that the war could spread to another front. Jim Sciutto talks to Israelis who wonder when Thousands in Gaza have been killed by Israeli airstrikes, and for those left behind the conditions are increasingly dire. CNN’s Scott McLean reports. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Monday asserted he made progress on the goals he set for a whirlwind Middle East trip as he departed with few tangible results to show for a flurry of meetings with leaders about the Israel-Hamas war. CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports that the United States is sending a message to Iran. Lebanon says it’s working with Hezbollah to prevent a war Robi Damelin and Bassam Aramin, who were united by the grief of losing a child, tell Christiane Amanpour why they are more committed than ever to a path to peace in the Middle East. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Sabri Sadam, former Palestinian Authority minister, about Israel’s bombing of Gaza, in which he says 44 of his family members have been killed. Israel and Lebanon both announcing civilian casualties from the ongoing airstrikes at the Israeli-Lebanon border. That’s fuelling more fears of a wider conflict in the region. Lynda Kinkade looks at what’s happening and Becky Anderson asks the Lebanese ... In a rare announcement, the US military said a guided missile submarine has arrived in the Middle East, a message of deterrence clearly directed at regional adversaries as the Biden administration tries to avoid a broader conflict amid the Israel-Hamas war. Dozens were killed and many more wounded in an explosion at the Al-Maghazi refugee camp, according to an official at a nearby hospital and eyewitnesses who spoke with CNN. The Israel Defense Forces says it is looking into the circumstances ... US Secretary of State Antony Blinken made an unannounced visit to the West Bank where he met with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. CNN’s Richard Quest speaks to Sultan Barakat of the Doha Institute about the diplomatic moves. How should the U.S. use its leverage to force Israel to do more to avoid civilian casualties in Gaza? CNN’s Richard Quest and Daniel Levy, President, U.S.-Middle East Project, discuss. As Israel intensifies its air and ground assault, up to a million people have fled northern Gaza to the south, according to a US special envoy, deepening the humanitarian crisis. Sharp divides persisted between the United States and its Arab partners on their response to Israel’s war against Hamas after Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Middle Eastern counterparts in Amman Saturday. Egypt’s Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry speaks with Christiane Amanpour about allowing civilians out of Gaza, Egypt’s lines of communication with Hamas, what he calls a “ludicrous” leaked Israeli document, and more. Saudi Arabia’s economy has jolted into reverse gear, after the world’s largest crude oil producer slashed output to prop up prices. As Israel’s war drags on, it pulls western attention away from Ukraine. CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speaks with Hamidreza Azizi, a visiting fellow at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Jordan after meeting with Israel’s prime minister in Tel Aviv. CNN’s Becky Anderson reports. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports on the surge in violence against Palestinians by Israeli settlers in the West Bank and the need for intervention to address the escalating crisis. Israeli ground forces are advancing on Gaza City, the largest and most densely packed population center in the Palestinian enclave, satellite imagery and videos from open and official sources suggest. The US has significantly strengthened its military posture in the Middle East amid concerns about the war between Israel and Hamas triggering a wider regional conflict. The U.S. intelligence community believes, for now that Iran and its proxies are calibrating their response to Israel’s military intervention in Gaza to avoid direct conflict with Israel or the U.S. Israel’s military says it is surrounding Gaza City as its bombardment of the strip continues. Follow for live news updates. A series of explosions and airstrikes illuminated the skies over Gaza as the IDF surrounds Gaza City, and its bombardment of the strip continues. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports near the Israel-Gaza border. The Israeli military has completely encircled Gaza City, according to a spokesperson, as the United Nations’ main relief agency in the isolated enclave accused Israeli warplanes of lethally bombing UN-run schools sheltering civilians. Rather than acting in isolation and possibly falling into the trap set by Hamas and Iran, Israel ought to pursue a strategic and security-oriented campaign, writes DJ Rosenthal. CNN’s Jeremy Diamond reports on the latest Israeli troop movements, as their forces approach Gaza City and strike a refugee camp. CNN’s John Vause speaks to the daughter-in-law of a Palestinian-American couple who are struggling to leave Gaza through the Rafah border crossing. The tiny Persian Gulf state of Qatar is once again front and center in global diplomacy, this time for its efforts to mediate deals to free hostages taken by Hamas during its October 7 attacks in Israel, as well as evacuate foreign nationals from Gaza. The border in the south of the besieged enclave has been seen as the last hope for Gazans to escape as Israel’s bombs rain down on the strip. CNN’s Kaitlan Collins reports on the pressure mounting on President Biden to call for a ceasefire in Gaza amidst outrage from Muslim Americans. Drawing on videos and photos from open and official sources, as well as reporting from CNN teams on the ground, it appears as though Israeli forces crossed the border in three main locations. Injured Palestinians and hundreds of foreign nationals have started crossing from Gaza into Egypt, officials and Egyptian media said, in the first sanctioned exodus from the besieged enclave in weeks. Former U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Robert Jordan joins Becky Anderson Laila El-Haddad, a U.S.-based Palestinian journalist and blogger with family trapped inside Gaza, speaks to Becky Anderson. The veteran Palestinian politician and peace negotiator accuses Israel of ethnic cleansing, as settler violence surges on the West Bank. Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert talks to Christiane Amanpour about the latest updates from the region and he responds to US concerns regarding the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Nimrod Goren of the Middle East Institute joins Bianca Nobilo to discuss the dangers of the Israel-Hamas war growing into a wider conflict in the Middle East. CNN’s Jim Sciutto reports on the escalation in clashes in northern Israel. CNN’s Melissa Bell reports from the Rafah crossing in Egypt, where trucks carrying aid are waiting to enter Gaza. The Israeli military said Tuesday it had thwarted an aerial attack by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen, as fears rise across the region that the Israel-Hamas war could widen. Hospitals in Gaza become the last place of refuge for Palestinians fleeing Israeli airstrikes. William Schomburg, head of the ICRC mission in Gaza, speaks to Christiane Amanpour from the Gaza strip, where he says there is “no where that is safe”. The Israeli military expands its attack on Hamas in Gaza. CNN’s Jim Sciutto reports. CNN’s Paula Newton speaks about the conditions in Gaza with a representative from the United Nations who has family members inside the Palestinian enclave. CNN’s Erin Burnett speaks with Palestinians living in East Jerusalem who say they are afraid to leave their homes for fear of being arrested by Israeli police. In the wake of the October 7 attacks by Hamas that killed at least 1,400 people in Israel, the Israel Defense Forces have launched a multipronged campaign against the militant group. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on the dire situation for the civilians ... An angry crowd in Russia’s mostly Muslim region of Dagestan stormed an airport where a flight from Israel arrived on Sunday, forcing authorities to close the facility and divert flights. CNN’s Jim Sciutto visited Arab Al-Aramshe, a mostly deserted town on the border of Israel and Lebanon, where he spoke with residents about the daily attacks Israel’s northern front faces from Hezbollah. The IDF says Israeli fighter jets have struck Hezbollah military infrastructure in southern Lebanon in response to shelling directed toward northern Israel. Ben Wedeman reports from Beirut. Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian talks to Bianna Golodryga about the prospects of a wider war – accusing the US of intervening too much in the Middle East: “They are interfering in all aspects of our region.” CNN’s Sara Sidner speaks with former State Department Middle East Negotiator Aaron David Miller about the expansion of IDF ground operations in Gaza. Israeli ground forces are inside Gaza ﻿after entering the enclave overnight, as Palestinians experienced what they have described as the most intense round of airstrikes since Israel began its retaliation against Hamas’ October 7 terror attack. CNN’s Amara Walker speaks with CNN Political and National Security Analyst David Sanger about operations being carried out by Israeli ground forces. The town of Metula, Israel, is close to the Lebanese border, where Hezbollah, the powerful Iran-backed group, is dominant. CNN’s Jim Sciutto reports from the ground where residents have been evacuated. The US carried out airstrikes targeting two facilities linked to Iranian-backed militias in eastern Syria on Thursday, according to a statement from Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, following a series of drone and rocket attacks against US forces in the region. More than two weeks of intense negotiations to evacuate foreign nationals out of Gaza have yielded few signs of progress, leaving hundreds of desperate civilians stranded inside the war-torn strip of land ahead of what appears to be an imminent ... Palestinian-American historian Rashid Khalidi speaks to CNN’s Becky Anderson about U.S support for Israel. A large series of explosions rocked Gaza City Friday night as the IDF says it is “expanding ground operations” in Gaza. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports near the Israel-Gaza border. The Middle East, currently resembling Europe on the eve of World War I, could tip into many possible outcomes, such as a US-Iran escalation or Iran joining the fight against Israel more directly, writes Charles Dunne. A day after Palestinian militant group Hamas launched its brutal attack on Israel, a curious video emerged out of Tehran’s Azadi stadium. Hundreds of soccer fans, gathered to watch a match between Perspolis FC and Gol Gohar Sirjan FC, chanted ... Poppy Harlow reports on Abood Okal, a Palestinian-American trapped in Gaza with his family. Israel says it will carry out more limited raids into Gaza as it prepares for its coming ground offensive.  CNN’s Rafael Romo reports from Tel Aviv. Israel conducted a “targeted raid” using tanks in northern Gaza before withdrawing, its military said Thursday, as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned a ground incursion into the besieged enclave will take place. Roughly 900 US troops have deployed or are deploying to the Middle East to bolster US force protection in the region amid heighten threats in the region, Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder said Thursday. The US carried out airstrikes targeting two facilities linked to Iranian-backed militias in eastern Syria, according to the Defense Secretary. Retired Colonel Cedric Leighton joins CNN to discuss. Carl Bildt says European leaders need to start thinking about a longer term solution to the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Christiane Amanpour talks with former U.S. State Dept. Middle East Negotiator Aaron David Miller. It started out as a family vacation. It has turned into a nightmare for Abood Okal, who traveled to Gaza in late September with his wife and infant son, and now is trapped with his family in a war zone. The lines of tanks, self-propelled artillery, armoured vehicles and army bulldozers stretch across the horizon near Israel’s border with Gaza. Pointing towards the enclave, they are ready to go. Israeli troops carried out a “targeted raid” with tanks in northern Gaza on Thursday before withdrawing from the enclave, according to the Israel Defense Forces. The barbaric attack on Israel by Hamas and the violent aftermath are tragic consequences of the failure to find a durable solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, writes Miriam Sapiro. She was part of the team that helped negotiate the ... CNN’s Nada Bashir reports on the dire humaniatrian situation in Gaza. Jeremy Diamond reports on the extreme methods Hamas terrorists underwent to invade Israel. While the humanitarian crisis unfolds in Gaza, CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz looks at the growing shortage of essential items. Through the narrow streets of the Jabal Al-Hussein refugee camp in the Jordanian capital Amman, the mood is clear. Queen Rania of Jordan has accused Western leaders of a “glaring double standard” for failing to condemn the deaths of civilians under Israeli bombardment in Gaza, as Israel’s war on Hamas threatens to destabilize relations between US and Arab leaders. The Israel-Hamas war is likely to hurt other economies in the Middle East, including Egypt, Lebanon and Jordan, International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Kristalina Georgieva said Wednesday. Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians have descended on the south of the Gaza Strip as a potential Israeli ground operation looms. As Israel gears up a ground offensive into Gaza, here’s what you need to know about the 140 square-mile enclave – one of the most densely-populated territories on Earth. Israel and Hamas are at war, after the Palestinian militant group launched surprise cross-border raids from Gaza on October 7, killing more than 1,400 people and taking hostages. Queen Rania of Jordan talks to Christiane Amanpour about the world’s reaction to the Israel and Hamas war. More than 700 people in Gaza were killed by hundreds of Israeli airstrikes within a 48 hour period, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry John Vause speaks to Harel Chorev, a senior researcher at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University, about what would follow an Israeli ground offensive in Gaza. Description: Defense minister says Israel is preparing a “multilateral operation” on Hamas. CNN’s John Vause discusses what that means with Wesley Clark, a CNN Military Analyst and former NATO Supreme Allied Commander The IDF has told all civilians in northern Gaza to evacuate to the south as it continues pounding the enclave with airstrikes. The UN said that about 1.4 million people have been displaced in Gaza - more than 60% of the entire strip’s population. CNN’s ... The US has intelligence that Iranian-backed militia groups are planning to ramp up attacks against US forces in the Middle East, as Iran seeks to capitalize on the backlash in the region to US support for Israel, according to multiple US officials. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports from Sderot, Israel, where he is witnessing what he calls the “most heavy and sustained” Israeli artillery and airstrikes on Gaza over the past two weeks. Oil prices rose above $91 a barrel Monday as diplomatic efforts to address the crisis in the Middle East intensified, but slipped back later in the day, falling below $90 on reports that that US was nearing a deal to ease sanctions on Venezuela. Speaking during a peace summit in Cairo, China’s Middle East envoy warned Sunday that the risk of a large-scale ground conflict in Gaza is significantly rising. CNN’s Kristie Lu Stout reports from Hong Kong. Zhai Jun, Beijing’s special envoy to the Middle East, has embarked on a whirlwind tour of the region aimed at promoting peace talks between Israel and Hamas – even though Beijing still refuses to condemn or even name the Palestinian militant group ... Michael Holmes speaks to Robin Wright, contributing writer for the New Yorker and a fellow with the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, about the increasing diplomatic efforts to prevent Israel’s war against Hamas from escalating ... Sunday’s strikes have been some of the most sustained bombardment of northern Gaza since Hamas attacked Israel two weeks ago. As CNN’s Nic Robertson reports, it comes as the IDF prepares for a potential ground operation, amassing huge ... Michael Holmes speaks with Laila El-Haddad, a Palestinian author and journalist whose family is in Gaza, about the worsening humanitarian crisis they are living through. Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak tells Fareed that after the Israel Defense Forces clear Hamas from Gaza, there is a possibility that the international community could restore the Palestinian Authority to power there. US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said Sunday the US is “concerned about potential escalation” in the Middle East a day after announcing the deployment of additional military assets to the region. Former Middle East negotiator for the US State Department Aaron David Miller says these are the major factors that Israel must consider as it weighs up a potential ground incursion into Gaza. Our names and nationalities, faces and faith brand us with the stain of collective guilt for crimes that we did not commit, writes Khaled A. Beydoun on the Arab and Muslim communities in the US. How will the Gaza conflict resolve? “The Arab nations in the region starting with Egypt are the ones that have a potential solution here.” says Ret. Lt. Gen. David Deptula. “But make no mistake, Israel is committed to the elimination of Hamas - and ... CNN’s Becky Anderson interviews Palestinian Authority Prime Minister, Mohammad Shtayyeh, about the potential normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia. Dalia Dassa Kaye, Senior Fellow, UCLA Burkle Center for International Relations, speaks to CNN’s Isa Soares on the risk of a regional spillover of Israel’s war with Hamas. Gaza’s border with Egypt briefly opened at the Rafah crossing to allow 20 truckloads of humanitarian aid into the enclave. Thousands of civilians are in desperate need as Israel’s siege of the territory continues. When 20-year-old Aya Najame, an Arab Muslim, was a little girl growing up in the northern Israeli port city of Haifa, she would go on cultural exchange trips to Jewish schools to learn about the Jewish way of life. Jewish children would do the same, ... Protests erupted around the Arab world on Friday against Israel’s war against Hamas with the potential to displace millions of Palestinians in Gaza. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports thousands of demonstrators took to the streets in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, ... An expected ground incursion by Israel is likely to mean block-by-block fighting against Hamas, which could counter Israel with snipers, tunnels, and IEDs. Protests are growing in the Middle East due to civilian deaths in Gaza as humanitarian aid remains in limbo at the Rafah Crossing on the Egypt-Gaza border. Protester Rahma Zein shared with CNN’s Clarissa Ward why she’s so upset with Western ... Protests erupted around the Arab world on Friday as the Gaza war raged and an Israeli ground operation with the potential to displace millions of Palestinians loomed. Poppy Harlow and Phil Mattingly talk with Fareed Zakaria, host of CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria, GPS.” CNN’s Kasie Hunt speaks with Major General Dana Pittard, U.S. Army (Ret.), about the intercepts near Yemen as well as a potential Israeli military ground campaign in Gaza. The Pentagon Press Secretary Air Force Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder confirmed the USS Carney shot down three land attack missiles as well as several drones that were launched by Iran-backed Houthi forces in Yemen. The incident was one of a series ... Christiane Amanpour speaks with former IDF Colonel Miri Eisen about a potential Israeli ground invasion into Gaza to retrieve hostages taken by Hamas. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports on the latest developments on Israel’s possible military incursion into Gaza. A US navy ship intercepts missiles launched by Houthi rebels in Yemen. Two American bases in Syria come under fire. In Iraq, drones and rockets fired at US forces. CNN’s Max Foster speaks with Bader Al-Saif, a history professor at Kuwait University, about growing regional protests as the Israel-Hamas war rages on. Pentagon says a U.S. warship in the Middle East shot down missiles and drones launched by Iranian-backed Houthi forces. CNN Pentagon Correspondent Oren Liebermann has more. Israeli politicians signal that ground operations in Gaza may not be far away. Israel says it has also arrested dozens of Hamas operatives in the West Bank. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports. Egypt is facing mounting pressure to act as neighboring Gaza gets pummeled by Israeli strikes after last weekend’s brutal assault by Hamas. Protesters in Jordan are speaking out in support of Palestinians trapped in Gaza, as CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. In 2009, 3 daughters and a niece of Dr. Izzeldin Abuelaish were killed by Israeli shells in Gaza. He described the awful moment live on Israeli television to journalist Shlomi Eldar. Both men speak with Christiane Amanpour about what’s happening now. A US Navy warship operating in the Middle East intercepted multiple projectiles near the coast of Yemen on Thursday, two US officials told CNN. Iran, which for years has supported Hamas with money and weapons, has a strong stake in how this plays out in the weeks, months and even years ahead, writes Frida Ghitis. Becky Anderson speaks with Mustafa Barghouti, President of the Palestinian National Initiative, about the condition of Palestinians. UAE University Professor Abdulkhaleq Abdulla tells CNN’s Becky Anderson that U.S. President Joe Biden didn’t come off “one bit as a peacemaker” during his trip to Tel Aviv Some of the United States’ closest Arab allies gave President Joe Biden the cold shoulder as he and his diplomats shuttled around the Middle East in an attempt to prevent the Israel-Hamas war from spiraling into a wider regional conflagration. Ibrahim Wadi, 62, and his son Ahmad, 24, were on their way to a funeral for four Palestinians shot dead by Israeli settlers in their occupied West Bank community, when their car came under attack. Christiane Amanpour speaks with former Jordanian Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher on how Jordanians are viewing the war in Gaza and the growing anger on the Arab street towards Israel and the U.S. Former Jordanian Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher tells Christiane Amanpour why talks between U.S. President Biden and regional leaders fell apart after the Gaza hospital blast. CNN’s Becky Anderson asks Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi why Jordan cancelled a planned summit with US President Joe Biden. Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping discussed the conflict in the Middle East during a meeting on the sidelines of the Belt and Road Forum in Beijing Wednesday, according to the Russian leader – who said “common threats” brought the two ... A wave of anti-Israel protests erupted across the Middle East as anger escalated after the deadly Gaza City hospital blast which Palestinian officials in Gaza blamed on Israel. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports on President Biden’s visit to Israel as anti-Israel protests take place across the Middle East after a deadly hospital blast in Gaza killed hundreds. President Joe Biden’s mission to contain Israel’s confrontation with Hamas was overtaken even before he left Washington on Tuesday evening by fast worsening events that threaten to spill over into a regional war. Tensions are growing along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon, as the IDF and Hezbollah exchange fire. CNN’s Matthew Chance reports. CNN Senior International Correspondent Ben Wedeman reports from southern Lebanon where there are fears of a second front in the war. When Palestinians in north Gaza heeded the warnings issued in the Israeli military’s phone calls, text messages, and fliers advising them to head south, they thought they were fleeing to potential safety. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on aid blocked at the Rafah border crossing area. Airstrikes killed at least 28 people in Rafah early Tuesday morning, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Interior. On the face of it, the crossfire on Lebanon’s border with Israel appears marginal, dwarfed by the scale and intensity of the Hamas-Israel war further south. Growing unrest in the Middle East has cast a shadow on global financial markets. While the United States maintains it will not get directly involved in Israel’s operation against Hamas, an increasing number of U.S. military assets are on the move to the region. CNN Pentagon Correspondent Oren Liebermann has the details. US leaders are mounting an urgent effort to prevent Israel’s war against Hamas and a resulting civilian catastrophe in Gaza from escalating into a widening regional conflict that could snowball into an even greater geopolitical crisis after this month’s horrific ... As Israel’s Prime Minister pledges to destroy Hamas, world leaders attempt to strike a balance between supporting Israel and discouraging the collective punishment of Gaza. CNN’s Sam Kiley has more. And a warning, his report contains some graphic ... Christiane Amanpour speaks with Mustafa Barghouti, the general secretary of the Palestinian National Initiative political party, about the war between Israel and Hamas. UN Humanitarian Coordinator Lynn Hastings highlights the growing need for food, water and fuel inside Gaza City and other areas in north Gaza. Palestinians say there are no safe areas in Gaza after the Israeli military called on some 1.1 million people to evacuate the north. It is feared that families will now pay the steepest cost after being trapped there. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports. Palestinians say there are no safe areas in Gaza after the Israeli military called on some 1.1 million people to evacuate the north. It is feared that families will now pay the steepest cost after being trapped there. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports. Stephanie Elam reports on Israeli-American reservists who are giving up their daily lives to serve Israel in fighting Hamas. Ahmed Arafat, a 26-year-old Palestinian-American, is doing everything he can to keep his small family safe from Israeli airstrikes in Gaza. Meanwhile, all his family in Tennessee can do is sit by the phone and pray. They hope he’ll be able to escape ... Although the U.S. has ordered a second carrier strike group to the eastern Mediterranean Sea as a deterrent, the Pentagon says it is not planning to send troops to Israel. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports from southern Lebanon, where concerns are rising that a second front could be opening in the conflict. CNN’s Scott McLean reports on the deteriorating situation in Gaza following another round of Israeli airstrikes that claimed victims in Deir al-Balah, a city situated south of the evacuation zone. Conditions in Gaza have deteriorated dangerously, experts say, with serious shortages of clean water and food as tens of thousands of Palestinians attempt to flee crippling airstrikes and an Israeli ground offensive. The Pentagon has ordered a second carrier strike group to the eastern Mediterranean Sea and is sending Air Force fighter jets to the region as Israel prepares to expand its Gaza operations, US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in a statement Saturday. The Israeli military has told all civilians in Gaza City to evacuate “southwards” as it maintains its bombardment of the coastal enclave in response to last weekend’s Hamas attacks that killed more than 1,400 people. The global economy is facing tremendous uncertainty from the war between Hamas and Israel in the Middle East, on top of the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine. Those conflicts don’t just threaten the regions where they’re unfolding; they may ... At least 150 people left Los Angeles International Airport Saturday on a charter flight to Israel. Many are Israeli-Americans who are going to help the war effort. CNN’s Stephanie Elam reports. Retired U.S. Army Major John Spencer joins CNN’s Michael Holmes to discuss how Israel Defense Forces might navigate a ground operation in Gaza. Egypt’s foreign minister says the crossing is open but roads on Gaza side are “inoperable” due to aerial bombardment. CNN’s Rafael Romo reports. Thousands of Palestinians flee Northern Gaza ahead of Israel’s expected ground invasion. CNN’s Isa Soares speaks to Palestinian journalist Laila El-Haddad about the situation. For Israelis and Palestinians alike, the world has been upended in a matter of days. For them, along with anxious loved ones across the United States, a terrifying new reality is starting to set in: A sense of impending doom, loss and uncertainty. CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speaks with Malcolm Davis of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute about Israel’s military operations in its war against Hamas. Video shows Gaza residents walking the streets with what belongings they can carry as they try to flee to the southern region amid orders from the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) urging residents to relocate. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. Major Doron Spielman, a spokesperson for Israel Defense Forces speaks, to CNN’s Lynda Kinkade about recent developments. Israeli jets have pounded Gaza ahead of a possible ground offensive, as Israel warns civilians to evacuate from the northern part of the territory. Michael Holmes speaks with Khaled Elgindy, a senior fellow with the Middle East Institute, about the ... Michael Holmes talks with IDF Spokesperson Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports on the war one week after Hamas attacked Israel. CNN’s Clarissa Ward reports on the response inside Gaza as Israel indicates it will invade the enclave days after Hamas killed hundreds of Israelis in a surprise attack. Secretary General of the Norwegian Refugee Council Jan Egeland warns that Israel must not create “a generation of hatred” as it strikes Gaza. Yuval Noah Harai tells Christiane Amanpour that Hamas intends to ensure conflict in region will continue “for generations.” The White House confirms that 27 Americans were killed in Israel, and 14 U.S. nationals are still missing.  CNN’s Erica Hill has some of their stories. CNN’s Becky Anderson reports on the U.S. Secretary of State’s efforts to keep the Israel-Hamas conflict from involving other nations. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports from Southern Lebanon on the “catastrophic” crisis Gaza faces as Israel vows to unleash a “large-scale strike” on Hamas targets in the region. The Biden administration said they’ll begin chartering flights on Friday from Israel to destinations in Europe, as officials scramble to get Americans stranded in the war-ravaged country back home to the US. The signs of Israel’s massive mobilization for a potential ground invasion of Gaza are all around here. CNN’s John Vause speaks with Dr. Mustafa Barghouti, head of the Palestinian National Initiative. CNN’s Nada Bashir shows us the neighborhoods worst hit by Israeli strikes. The brutal rampage by Islamist militant group Hamas on Israel last weekend involved thousands of rockets and missiles, drones dropping explosives, and untold numbers of small arms and ammunition. A humanitarian crisis is rapidly unfolding in Gaza as Israel’s aerial bombardments intensify. Nearly 1,200 people have been killed in airstrikes in Gaza, according to Palestinian health officials. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. Retired Colonel Cedric Leighton shows how Gaza’s high population density could impact Israel’s ability to conduct a ground assault in the region. Flights have been affected and some governments have updated advice for citizens. Here’s how the situation in Israel is affecting travel at the moment. Hamas’ brutal weekend attack on Israel has thrust the Palestinian issue back into the international spotlight and may have thrown a wrench in Israel’s efforts to expand what Netanyahu calls the “circle of peace.” Christiane Amanpour talks to Israel Defence Forces spokesperson Jonathan Conricus about the new activity in Israel’s air space near Lebanon. Kim Ghattas, author of “Black Wave,” talks to Christiane Amanpour about the cycles of violence in the Middle East. Following the devastating surprise attack on Israeli civilians and soldiers by Hamas, and the subsequent bombardment of Gaza by Israel, protests have spread around the world. Hear what activists have to say about the war. Associate Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Royal United Services Institute, Michael Stephens joins Max Faster and Bianca Nobilo to discuss international response to the war in Israel. President Joe Biden reiterated US support for Israel in remarks addressing Hamas’ unprecedented attacks. Russian President Vladimir Putin made some of his first comments on the conflict unfolding in Israel, framing it as a failure of U.S. policy in the Middle East. CNN’s Fred Pleitgen reports. When Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas visited Beijing in June, China vowed to contribute “Chinese wisdom, Chinese strength” to resolve the long-standing conflict between the Palestinians and Israel. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on civilians caught in the crosshairs of war between Israel and Hamas. CNN’s Patrick Oppmann reports on the Latin Americans killed in Hamas’ deadly rampage. CNN’s Matthew Chance wraps the latest developments in Israel’s war against Hamas. In a report from 2009, CNN’s Ben Wedeman witnesses the aftermath of an Israeli ground incursion of Gaza. Newly released drone footage showed the Israel Defense Forces pounding Gaza with airstrikes, hitting over 200 targets in one night. Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it is “just the beginning.” Israel’s Defense Minister orders a “complete siege” of Gaza, cutting off all utilities and aid. CNN’s Ben Wedeman has more on what Palestinians there are enduring. Find out why this small strip of land has been through so many conflicts and political upheavals since the end of World War II. Two of the United States’ closest Arab allies are asking the Biden administration to formalize their military relationship with a wide-ranging agreement as Washington becomes uneasy about China’s growing role in the Middle East. The shock Hamas incursion into Israel was of a scale and sophistication that was previously considered unthinkable. Was Iran involved? Christiane Amanpour speaks to Oxfam’s Omar Ghraieb from Gaza about how civilians are being affected by Israeli airstrikes. Former U.S. Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, joins CNN to discuss the U.S. pledging assistance to Israel Palestinian-American Middle East Analyst Omar Baddar discusses what triggered the attacks on Israel and why he think it was predictable. Middle East correspondent for The Economist Gregg Carlstrom discusses the difficulty in planning a ground incursion into densely populated Gaza. Israeli Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant says he has given an order for Gaza’s “complete siege.” No electricity, food, fuel or water will be delivered to the enclave, which is surrounded by Israel and Egypt. CNN military analyst and retired Col. ... CNN’s Nic Robertson reports from Zikim, Israel, as missiles from Israel’s Iron Dome defense system intercept rockets fired from Gaza just miles away. CNN’s Dana Bash shows new social media video of a firefight in the middle of a highway in Israel. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on international reaction to the Hamas attacks. In an interview with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour, Palestinian National Initiative leader Mustafa Barghouti explains why he believes Hamas is not a threat to the West Bank and why this attack on Israel is happening. Israel says civilians were captured by Hamas, and it is believed they may be used as hostages in Gaza.  Laila Harrak speaks to Liz Throssell, Spokesperson with the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights about the humanitarian situation. Palestinian militant group Hamas launched a large-scale surprise attack on Israel from Gaza leaving hundreds dead. Here’s how the events unfolded. The surprise weekend attack by Hamas, involving thousands of missiles fired from Gaza and on-the-ground fighting inside Israel, has the potential to upend an emerging diplomatic deal that could reshape the region, writes Peter Bergen. Turkish airstrikes killed at least 11 people in multiple Kurdish-controlled locations in northeastern Syria, the Kurdish Internal Security Force said Thursday, the latest response from Ankara’s forces following a bomb attack in Turkey’s capital claimed ... On September 19, the day Azerbaijan began its offensive in the majority Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh, Marut Vanyan heard an ominous noise in the sky over his hometown. Almost five months since Arab states extended an olive branch to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, there are signs that some key architects of the initiative may be growing skeptical about his commitment to the agreement. Thousands are fleeing the majority-Armenian enclave after last week’s offensive by Azerbaijan’s military. CNN’s Laila Harrak discusses with a reporter who has seen the situation at the border firsthand. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it is “likely” Israel will reach a normalization agreement with Saudi Arabia, in what would mark a seismic foreign policy shift for both countries as they edge closer to reaching a deal mediated by ... An archaeological conference in Saudi Arabia’s AlUla discusses the newly opened kingdom’s bold heritage tourism plans and lifts the lid on new discoveries still baffling experts. Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks with CNN’s Kaitlan Collins about a possible deal with Saudi Arabia. In an exclusive interview, Christiane Amanpour questions Qatar’s Prime Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani on Syria, Afghanistan and LGBTQ rights. The Palestinian Authority president urges full national rights for Palestinians as Israel and Saudi Arabia negotiate normalization. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Prime Minister of Qatar on why their hand was forced over Syria’s re-entry into the Arab League. Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani tells Becky Anderson that cultural similarities with Iran and joint interests like fighting terrorism help form the basis of their countries’ relationship. Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) said that his country was moving “closer” each day toward reaching a normalization deal with Israel, the first time he has publicly acknowledged the process. In the heart of Saudi Arabia’s capital is the marketplace of Souq al-Zal. Local DJ Bassam, aka “BluePaper,” shows CNN how its rich heritage inspires his music. Former World Cup and European Championship winner Andrés Iniesta join’s CNN’s Becky Anderson to discuss the growth of football in the Middle East after his decision to play in the United Arab Emirates. CNN’s Ben Wedeman tells Isa Soares about the powerful and deadly storm that unleashed devastating floods in eastern Libya. Christiane Amanpour interviews Sam Bloch, director of emergency response for World Central Kitchen, onsite in Morocco after the earthquake there. US President Joe Biden, along with leaders of India, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, announced on Saturday the launch of a new trade route connecting India to the Middle East and Europe through railways and ports. The White House said the ... Despite G20 having only one Arab member – Saudi Arabia – three others will be present at this year’s summit as guests. Becky Anderson explores the rising presence of Arab countries on the global stage as this year’s G20 summit is set to kick off in ... Senior U.S. officials are meeting with Saudi officials in Riyadh as Washington continues to work behind the scenes to push forth a possible normalization agreement between Saudi Arabia and Israel. CNN’s Kylie Atwood reports from the ... The Middle East is one of the world’s most affected and most exposed regions to climate change. CNN’s Becky Anderson has more from Abu Dhabi. Large crowds have gathered for the religious pilgrimage of Arbaeen, to mark the end of Ashura, a 40-day mourning period for the grandson of the prophet Mohammed, Imam Hussein. CNN’s Becky Anderson has more. Senior Western officials are visiting the United Arab Emirates to discuss sanctions as concerns mount over goods being exported to Russia that could potentially be used in Moscow’s war on Ukraine. More than 160 Arab Israelis have been murdered this year by members of their own community, in violence mostly attributed to organized crime. But they say the government isn’t doing enough to protect them. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports from ... Iranian and Saudi soccer clubs will be facing off on a home-and-away basis for the first time since 2016, the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) said in a statement Monday. The Middle Eastern country sees rare protests as Syrians demand regime change over poor living conditions while the economy continues to free fall. Abad remembers rockets and barrel bombs tumbling over his hometown of Aleppo, a sprawling city in northwestern Syria that became the epicenter of a long-running civil war. Isa Soares speaks with former Commanding General of U.S. Army Europe and Seventh Army Mark Hertling about Ukraine’s wave of new drone attacks on Russia. Musandam, on the northeast tip of the Arabian Peninsula, is a little-known wonderland of staggering stone cliffs and a labryinthine succession of coves, bays and inlets that make up the world’s only desert fjords. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports on Iran’s roundup of activists and relatives of killed protesters ahead of the first anniversary of Mahsa Amini’s death. Saudi border guards killed “hundreds” of Ethiopian migrants and asylum seekers crossing the Yemen-Saudi border between March 2022 and June 2023, Human Rights Watch alleged in a report released Monday. Vali Nasr, Professor of International Affairs and Middle East Studies at Johns Hopkins University, speaks with Becky Anderson about the significance of the Iranian Foreign Minister’s visit to Saudi Arabia. As oil-rich Gulf states seek to diversify their military partnerships, they are finding themselves ensnared in the intensifying rivalry for global dominance between the United States and China. Nahwa, in the UAE emirate of Sharjah is an enclave within an enclave in an enclave. Its geographical complexity makes it one of only two counter-enclaves in the world. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports on the appointment of Saudi Ambassador to Jordan Naif bin Bandar Al-Sudairi as non-resident envoy to the Palestinians, amid complex efforts to normalize Saudi-Israeli relations Saudi Arabia has appointed its first ambassador to the Palestinians, in a move that comes amid talks with the United States over a possible deal to normalize relations between the Gulf kingdom and Israel. New findings by Conflict Armament Research, a UK-based organization that investigates weapons components, has revealed Russia has started producing its own domestic version of Iran’s Shahed series drones. CNN’s Michael Holmes reports. Connect the World anchor Becky Anderson and CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson discuss the deliberate efforts by the U.S. to work toward a deal to normalize ties between Saudi Arabia and Israel. Saudi Arabia’s ancient Red Sea port city Jeddah, stewing in the steamy heat of the world’s hottest summer on record, is not the obvious pick to cool the world’s fiercest conflict, currently raging in Ukraine. The fantasy comedy won’t play in Kuwait and possibly Lebanon, and a new documentary explores what makes Stephen King books such popular films and TV. David Daniel reports. Three Palestinians have been killed by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) at the Jenin Camp in the occupied West Bank, the IDF announced on Sunday. The United Nations says a long-awated operation to remove one million barrels of oil from a decaying supertanker near Yemen’s coastline is underway. More than 10,000 people have been killed in the Sudanese region of West Darfur in the past two months, tribal leaders say, amid a deadly conflict between two warring factions that has triggered a mass exodus of refugees from the country and ... A Russian fighter jet flew “dangerously close” to a US drone over Syria and damaged it with flares, according to the US Air Force, in the latest in a series of incidents between the two militaries in the Middle East. Amid a searing heat wave in the Middle East and North Africa, residents are finding creative ways to keep cool. But as CNN’s Michael Holmes reports, others are finding the high temperatures too much to bear. As discontent grows across North Africa, journalist David Kirkpatrick and Former UK Ambassador to Libya Peter Millett weigh up the far-reaching consequences. Turkey claims it has regained areas along the Turkish-Syrian border from ISIS as Syria says it has launched a new offensive against rebels near Aleppo. CNN’s Michael Holmes reports. Iran fired more than a dozen ballistic missiles at two Iraqi military bases housing US troops. Follow here for the latest news as tensions rise in the Middle East. The US is deploying thousands of Marines and additional forces to the Middle East following recent Iranian attempts to seize commercial shipping vessels, the Pentagon announced Thursday. England international Jordan Henderson’s next stop looks to be Saudi Arabia. US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has ordered F-35 and F-16 fighter jets deployed to the Middle East, as well as the destroyer USS Thomas Hudner, in response to Iranian activities in the Strait of Hormuz. People from the Mediterranean, to the Middle East, to southeastern Turkey, and northern Africa are battling brutal heat. CNN’s Kim Brunhuber speaks with Henning Gloystein, Director for Energy, Climate and Resources at Eurasia Group, London, ... Syria says U.N. can deliver aid through shuttered Turkish crossing for six months. The Security Council failed to renew its authorization a longer-term days earlier. The US military killed an ISIS leader on Friday in a drone strike in eastern Syria, the US Central Command announced Sunday. Russian aircraft once again harassed US MQ-9 Reaper drones over Syria Friday, the Air Force said, in a sign of increasing friction between the two countries in Middle East airspace. Just days after Israel’s largest operation in decades ended in Jenin, two Palestinians were killed during an Israeli operation in Nablus. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz reports. CNN explores the rise of Gulf countries in the trillion-dollar global space industry. Russian fighter jets harassed an American drone operating over Syria for the second time in two days, according to the US Air Force, a sign of increasing friction between the two countries in Middle East airspace. CNN Correspondent Salma Abdelaziz reports from Jenin, West Bank, as thousands of Palestinians march through the streets for the funeral of the 12 people killed in Israel’s largest military operation in the occupied West Bank in more than 20 years. Three Russian fighter jets intercepted three US Air Force drones in northeastern Syria on Wednesday morning local time, according to the senior commander in charge of Air Force operations in the Middle East. Violence extends to Gaza and Tel Aviv as Israel says it has withdrawn forces from Jenin, West Bank. CNN’s Hadas Gold has more. Experts warn that recent killings in Darfur echo the genocide of the early 2000s. CNN’s Julia Chatterley speaks with Mukesh Kapila, former U.N. Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Sudan. As the biggest military raid in the West Bank in decades unfolds, Miri Eisin, an ex-colonel in the Israeli Defense Forces explains what is happening on the ground. When authoritarian Middle Eastern regimes feel threatened by their public, they often shut down the internet. But such disruptions are not without costs. And one advocacy group has devised a way of calculating that cost. The United States has stressed to Israel that the explosion of tensions with the Palestinians will make it virtually impossible to expand normalization agreements with Arab nations, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday, adding that ... A flurry of diplomatic activity between Iran and Western nations has taken place in recent weeks, raising hopes of a de-escalation in tensions as the Middle East nation continues to antagonize the West with its support for Russia and continued ... Nine people have been killed and dozens injured after Russian fighter jets bombed a city in Syria’s rebel-controlled northwestern Idlib province, according to the local White Helmets emergency response group. It’s been a violent week in the occupied West Bank just as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hopes to normalize relations with Saudi Arabia. Former U.S. Ambassador to Israel Martin Indyk discusses with Becky Anderson. More young Arabs see China as an ally of their countries than the United States, a survey of regional youth has found. Four people were killed and four more were wounded in shootings near the settlement of Eli in the West Bank, Israeli authorities and emergency services said Tuesday. Sophia Saifi reports that Pakistan is observing a national day of mourning after more than 300 Pakistanis are killed in the Mediterranean boat disaster. An Israeli raid erupted in fierce battles with Palestinian militants in the occupied West Bank on Monday. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports from Jerusalem. Textbooks in Saudi Arabia have been changing. For years, researchers have been observing a gradual moderation on subjects ranging from gender roles to the promotion of peace and tolerance. CNN’s Fareed Zakaria explains how Saudi Arabia is reshaping the Middle East by rebranding its image around the world. Russia’s largest economic forum, shunned by the West after the invasion of Ukraine, had a last-minute high-profile guest Friday – United Arab Emirates President Mohamed bin Zayed. Christiane Amanpour discusses the latest headlines from the Middle East with region expert and former U.S. State Department official Vali Nasr. Vali Nasr talks to Christiane Amanpour about shifting alliances in the Middle East, and what it means for the world. Last February, Israeli settlers rampaged through the occupied West Bank town of Huwara. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. It was perhaps the first royal wedding of its stature to have been filmed in the Middle East. The US military deployed F-22 fighter jets to the Middle East this week due to concerns about ‘unsafe and unprofessional behavior,’ by Russian aircraft, the US military announced on Wednesday. It’s not every day that you see billboards in Hebrew on the streets of Tehran. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday reaffirmed the Biden administration’s commitment to normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia as he wrapped up his first solo visit to the Kingdom. Israeli troops staged a rare incursion into Ramallah, the seat of the Palestinian Authority government in the occupied West Bank, prompting clashes  the Palestinian Ministry of Health said left at least six people wounded. As LIV Golf and the PGA Tour announce a partnership, CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson analyzes how Saudi Arabia is utilizing diplomacy and cash to expand its international outreach. Riyadh knows that it cannot rely solely on a fluctuating oil market for income. Along with its efforts to raise oil prices, it is also trying to bring in investment from abroad. CNN goes behind the scenes at King Abdullah Port, one of the most efficient ports in the world. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports from Jerusalem after a rare cross-border attack that left three Israeli soldiers and an Egyptian security officer dead near the Israel-Egypt border. Three Israel soldiers and an Egyptian security officer killed in a rare cross-border attack. Jordan’s heir to the throne on Thursday married into one of Saudi Arabia’s prominent business families in a glitzy ceremony attended by international royals and heads of state. Team from Saudi Arabia arrives in Syria to reopen embassy in Damascus As Ukrainian and Western officials say Iran is sending weapons to Russia to support their war against Ukraine, CNN uncovers some of the routes they may be taking. In his first speech to a major regional summit in more than a decade, Syria’s Bashar al-Assad on Friday told fellow Arab states that a new world order called for a rearranging of international affairs without “Western interference.” Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is welcomed at the Arab League Summit, after having been suspended for 12 years. He accused the West of dividing the world. Laila Harrak talks with Rime Allaf of the Syria Program Advisory Council, Middle East ... Syrian President Bashar al-Assad accused the West of dividing the world in his first speech to Arab League Summit in more than 10 years. Bashar al-Assad’s return to the Arab League angers victims of the civil war. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports. When it comes to Israel’s conflict with Palestinian organizations in Gaza, the past is sadly prologue more often than not. This weekend’s Egyptian-brokered ceasefire between Israel and Palestine Islamic Jihad after five days of rockets and airstrikes ... Hundreds of people have died in the Sudanese region of West Darfur, as fighting between the two rival military factions battling control in the country escalated as well as drawing in local militia groups. Although a ceasefire between Israel and Islamic Jihad is holding, the recent Israeli strikes on Gaza have taken a heavy toll on its people. Ben Wedeman speaks to some of them. The United Arab Emirates has invited Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to attend the United Nations’ COP28 Climate Summit, which will take place from November 30 in Dubai. Ceasefire holding after days of deadly strikes and counterstrikes. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports on the toll on civilians. CNN Correspondent Ben Wedeman tells Isa Soares about the aftermath of five days of violence in Gaza as a ceasefire between Israel and Palestinian militants appears to be holding. CNN Senior International Correspondent Ben Wedeman reports from Gaza and speaks to residents who are reeling from the aftermath of the deadly conflict between Israel and Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Life in Gaza quickly appeared to be returning to normal Sunday, the morning after a ceasefire ended five days of intense rocket fire and airstrikes between Palestinian Islamic Jihad and the Israel Defense Forces left 35 people dead – all but one of ... CNN’s Elliott Gotkine reports from Jerusalem, where a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Palestinian militants appears to be holding after nearly a week of violence that left at least 35 people dead. The ceasefire is being welcomed by both Israelis and Palestinians. But the question is how long it will last. Israel and Islamic Jihad agreed to a ceasefire Saturday, after days of violence that have claimed the lives of at least 35 people – almost all of them Palestinians. National Security Council spokesman says the U.S. will bolster its defensive posture with heightened patrols in the Persian Gulf after destabilizing actions by Iran to interfere with and seize commercial vessels in the Strait of Hormuz and other ... Violence escalates between Israel and militants in Gaza, Ben Wedeman reports Palestinian militants launched rockets towards Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank on Friday, an escalation of violence in the region that has led to the deaths of at least 33 Palestinians in Gaza and one person ... The US will bolster its defensive posture with heightened patrols in the Persian Gulf after destabilizing actions by Iran this past month to interfere with and seize commercial vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz and other strategic waterways, ... Elliott Gotkine reports on the rising death toll in the conflict between Israel and Gaza militants. How culture and heritage are driving Middle East tourism. CNN heads to the Arabian Travel Market and learns why the tourism industry is thriving. Israel’s army and Palestinian militants exchanged heavy cross-border fire, with hundreds of rockets launched from Gaza towards Israel after the Israel Defense Forces carried out deadly strikes on what it says are Islamic Jihad organization ... Israel’s army and Palestinian militants exchanged heavy cross-border fire on Wednesday, with hundreds of rockets launched from Gaza towards Israel after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) carried out deadly strikes on what it says are Islamic ... Saudi Arabia is home to centuries of history and heritage. As the country opens its doors to the world, CNN shares stories of Saudi old and new. There’s a burgeoning music scene in Saudi Arabia, ranging from local talent to international stars who perform at festivals such as MDLBEAST. CNN travels to the “Edge of the World,” a giant cliff and geological wonder that attracts hikers, climbers and campers to the Tuwaiq Mountains in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia and Syria have resumed the work of diplomatic missions in both countries, according to state media, more than a decade after Riyadh cut ties over the Syrian government’s brutal handling of its civil war. Three Islamic Jihad commanders and multiple family members were among the 13 Palestinians killed as Israeli jets and helicopters struck multiple targets in Gaza overnight in what Israel described as an operation targeting “kingpin terrorists,” ... Iran smuggled weapons and military equipment into Syria using humanitarian aid shipments as a cover following a devastating earthquake there in February, two sources familiar with US intelligence and an Israeli defense official told CNN. Syria has been reinstated into the Arab League more than a decade after President Bashar Al-Assad’s brutal crackdown on protesters. The Arab League has re-admitted Syria after an 11-year absence. The decision was announced at an extraordinary meeting in Cairo on Sunday, more than a decade after Damascus was suspended in November 2011 over its violent crackdown of ... AKM Musha from Concern Worldwide speaks to Zain Asher about the humanitarian situation in Sudan. Faisal Almshari takes tourists to museums, cultural attractions, and his favorite spot, the Edge of the World, where he leads hikes and explores hidden caves. Members of the Arab League have voted to restore Syria’s membership 11 years after it was suspended over the Syrian civil war. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. The Arab League restores Syria’s membership even though it says the crisis in the country isn’t over. CNN’s Paula Newton reports on what some Syrians still displaced by the civil war think about the decision. The leaders of the House Intelligence Committee, who are on a congressional trip to the Middle East, say countries in the region are seeking an increased role for the United States to counter the growing influence of China. The Arab League has re-admitted Syria after an 11-year absence, the organization said Sunday, following an extraordinary meeting at the Arab League’s headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. Six out of the top ten countries for solar potential are in the Middle East. Becky Anderson speaks to COO of Yellow Door Energy about harnessing that potential. King Charles has for years fostered close ties to the Middle East. Becky Anderson reports. Arab nations are set to re-admit Syria into the Arab League despite repeated objections from the United States to ending the decade-long isolation of a regime that it holds accountable for the deaths of more 300,000 civilians and displacement of ... Jordan’s Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi believes there are enough votes among Arab League members for Syria to return to the organization, adding that it is “only the beginning” of bringing a political end to the Syrian crisis. Israel says it killed the gunmen responsible for the deaths of a British-Israeli mother and two of her daughters. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports from Jerusalem. As Saudi Arabia continues its drive to attract tourists, authorities in the country appear to be reaching out to a particularly lucrative section of the market: LGBTQ travelers. Becky Anderson interviews Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Al-Safadi about Arab leaders normalizing relations with Syrian President Assad When Iranian evacuees from Sudan were being flown out of Saudi Arabia on Saturday, a top Saudi military official went as far as boarding their plane back home to bid them a warm farewell. “(This is) your country,” he said. Iran’s president visits Syria as the war-torn country reenters the diplomatic fold Professor Fawaz Gerges discusses the changes occurring in the Middle East as Syria reenters the diplomatic fold Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi is on a trip to Syria.  It reportedly marks the first state visit by an Iranian head of state to Damascus since the Syrian civil war began 12 years ago. CNN’s Nada Bashir reports. The Islamic Jihad Movement says “a round of confrontations has ended,” following Israeli military strikes on Gaza and rockets being fired into Israel from Gaza. The conflict started after a former Islamic Jihad prisoner died in Israeli custody after a ... CNN’s Larry Madowo reports from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where thousands of evacuees from Sudan are arriving as the United Nations warns that the humanitarian situation in Sudan is at a ”breaking point.” CNN’s Larry Madowo reports on the ongoing crisis in Sudan, where civilians, some of them American, are trying to flee the fighting in the country. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talks with Fareed about Israel’s relations with its Arab neighbors and the U.S. Hundreds of evacuees arrived in Saudi Arabia from Sudan as fierce fighting in the country between the army and a rival paramilitary group entered its third week, despite another attempt at a ceasefire. Although Israel’s rise has been dramatic, on its 75th anniversary the country also feels like it stands on the brink of a chasm, a crisis of identity, even as it continues to face ever-present external threats. Maswadeh is something not often seen on Israeli television. He is one of the few Palestinian reporters who report in Hebrew, on Israeli TV. Hamid Khalafallah of the Tahrir Institute for Middle East Policy speaks with Christiane Amanpour from Khartoum about the latest in Sudan. Saudi Arabia has become the first country to announce evacuations of its stranded citizens from Sudan, a week after intense fighting broke out there between two rival forces. Massi Kamari fled Iran for France about four years ago, fearing for her life due to her activism back home. When protests started picking up steam in late 2022, she found herself being intimidated again. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz has more. More than a thousand years old, Jeddah’s Al-Balad neighborhood is a UNESCO World Heritage site and, as the historic gateway to Mecca, has been pulling in visitors for centuries. A US helicopter raid in northeast Syria targeted a senior ISIS leader and planner early Monday morning, according to a spokesman for US Central Command. Yemen’s Houthi rebels are not interested in spreading tyranny in the country and are willing to share power with other political factions if a permanent ceasefire with Saudi Arabia is reached, a top Houthi official has said. US forces captured an ISIS operative and two of his associates in eastern Syria on Saturday evening, the US military announced on Wednesday. Mohammad Shtayyeh accuses Israel of “systematically destroying a future possibility of a Palestinian state,” amidst rising tension in the region. Thousands of Israeli settlers marched to an abandoned West Bank outpost, further inflaming tensions in the region. CNN’s Frederik Pleitgen reports. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz delivers a report on the latest unrest in the Middle East. CNN’s Salma Abdelaziz delivers a report on the latest unrest in the Middle East. Israeli forces shot and killed a 15-year-old Palestinian boy near the occupied West Bank city of Jericho and an Israeli woman died of wounds sustained in an attack last week, as violence in the region continued to simmer on Monday. Palestinian Prime Minister  Mohammad Shtayyeh joins CNN’s Christiane Amanpour to discuss the current tensions with Israel and how they can be resolved. Israel retaliated with airstrikes in Lebanon after rockets were fired from southern Lebanon into Israeli territory. CNN’s Scott McLean reports. Israel launched strikes against Syrian military targets after several rockets were fired from Syria, the Israeli military said. CNN’s Scott McLean in Beirut reports on the recent violence in the Middle East, and how Lebanon is attempting to defuse tensions in the region. Salma Abdelaziz reports on heightened tensions in the Middle East, following Israeli raids on Al-Aqsa mosque Separate attacks in the West Bank and Tel Aviv killed three people on Friday after Israel struck Palestinian militant targets in southern Lebanon and Gaza, concluding three days of rising tensions in the region following police raids on the al-Aqsa ... Israel said it struck targets belonging to the Palestinian militant group Hamas in southern Lebanon and Gaza, amid rising tension days after Israeli police stormed the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. The strikes came hours after dozens of rockets were ... Foreign policy analyst Firas Maksad says that for Netanyahu in Israel, and Hezbollah in Lebanon, the tension distracts from domestic political concerns. Israel said it struck targets belonging to the Palestinian militant group Hamas in southern Lebanon and Gaza early Friday, hours after dozens of rockets were fired from southern Lebanon into Israeli territory, which the Israeli military blamed on ... Israel said it struck targets belonging to the Palestinian militant group Hamas in southern Lebanon and Gaza, amid rising tension days after Israeli police stormed the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. The strikes came hours after dozens of rockets were ... The Israeli military said that dozens of rockets were fired from Lebanon into Israel in a major escalation that comes amid regional tensions over Israeli police raids at the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Israeli police clashed with Palestinians inside the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem’s Old City. This comes as Muslims pray during the holy month of Ramadan and Jews celebrate Passover. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Dozens of rockets have been fired at Israel from Lebanon, the largest such attack in years. Elliott Gotkine is in Jerusalem, with all the latest details. Saudi Arabia’s and Iran’s Foreign Ministers met in Beijing on Thursday to discuss key details in the resumption of their relations following a landmark agreement mediated by China last month. A US strike in Syria has killed a senior ISIS leader who planned attacks into Europe, United States Central Command said in a statement. The US has bolstered its military forces in the Middle East following a series of attacks on US troops in Syria attributed to Iranian-affiliated militias, the Pentagon said Friday. Saudi Arabia this week moved closer to joining a China-led Asian security and economic bloc, having been granted the status of a dialogue partner in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) as it expands its global outreach. Vali Nasr speaks to Becky Anderson about how the Iran-Saudi deal brokered by China will lead to a new geopolitical reality in the Middle East. Natasha Bertrand reports on the latest attacks on U.S. troops in Syria The US has conducted an airstrike in Syria against what it said were Iranian-affiliated facilities after a suspected Iranian drone struck a facility housing US personnel in the country, killing an American contractor and wounding five US service members. Jomana Karadsheh reports on the latest diplomatic moves in the Middle East. With restaurants listed among the region’s best, Abu Dhabi’s upscale dining scene is becoming a hot ticket, offering scores of cuisines from around the world, from Peruvian to Thai, French to Japanese and Indian to Ethiopian. A surprise agreement by regional archenemies Saudi Arabia and Iran this month has raised hopes that the Saudi war in Yemen may come to an end, after more than seven years of hostilities that saw tens of thousands of civilians killed or injured and the ... Israel’s far-right Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich denied the existence of a Palestinian people or nationhood over the weekend, prompting a rebuke from the United States just weeks after calling for a Palestinian town to be “erased.” CNN’s Becky Anderson speaks to former US ambassador to Israel Dan Shapiro about forging cooperation in the Middle East. With a grandiose diplomatic flourish China brokered a rapprochement between Saudi Arabia and Iran, in the process upending US calculus in the Gulf and beyond. Faisal Abbas, Editor-in-Chief of Arab News speaks to Connect the World about Iran and Saudi Arabia resuming diplomatic relations Mohammed El-Erian and Ryan Lemand give expert insight into SBV collapse Saudi Arabia and Iran have given each other just two months to prove they are serious about Friday’s agreement to normalize ties. The two are likely to be discussing ways to end almost seven years of hostility, a large task given how far-reaching the ... Indeed, the agreement of long-time foes Saudi Arabia and Iran to bury the hatchet and re-establish diplomatic relations after years of confrontation and religious hostility, must inevitably take a back seat to the venue and the peacemaker who brokered ... CNN’s Nada Bashir breaks down the significance of Iran and Saudi Arabia’s deal to restore diplomatic ties after years of hostilities. When Saudi Arabia and Iran buried the hatchet in Beijing on Friday, it was a game-changing moment both for a Middle East shaped by their decades-old rivalry, and for China’s growing influence in the oil-rich region. Friday’s announcement is also a diplomatic victory for China in a Gulf region that has long been considered part of the US’ domain of influence. It comes as the Biden administration tries to notch its own win in the Middle East by trying to broker a ... CNN’s Becky Anderson speaks to Cinzia Bianco of the European Council of Foreign on the agreement between Saudi and Iran to re-establish ties. Saudi Arabia is looking to the United States for security guarantees and help with its civilian nuclear program as a condition for normalizing relations with Israel, according to people familiar with the matter, setting up a critical decision that could reshape ... While oil and gas has fueled the rise of modern Qatar, a rarer natural resource has played the longest role in the Gulf country’s evolution. Today, this “lost” heritage is everywhere – if you know where to look. One month following the train derailment and subsequent chemical spill, residents of East Palestine and the surrounding region are still anxious about the long term effects for themselves, their families, and their businesses. CNN’s Miguel Marquez reports. Miriam Berger discusses tensions in Israel and the West Bank. In an exclusive interview, Christiane Amanpour speaks with Hossein Amir-Abdollahian about protests in Iran, the government’s brutal crackdown, the war in Ukraine, and the JCPOA. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi last month sent a message to his Gulf allies. “The most important point here is support from our brothers,” he said at the World Government Summit (WGS) in Dubai, where he was guest of honor. An Israeli-American citizen was killed in the occupied West Bank as tensions in the region continued to ratchet up after a weekend of violence. The heart of occupied Nablus is one of the most ancient cities in the Middle East. With two churches, 12 mosques and a Samaritan synagogue around densely populated residential areas, the occupied West Bank city’s nickname is “Little Damascus” ... At least 11 Palestinians were killed Wednesday during a rare daytime raid by Israeli military forces in the occupied West Bank that also left more than 100 injured, Palestinian officials said in the aftermath of an operation described by the local ... At least 11 Palestinians were killed during a rare daytime raid in the occupied West Bank that Israeli military forces say was targeting three militants planning an imminent attack. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Oman is opening up its airspace to Israeli carriers, including El Al. Previously, the airlines had to fly a roundabout route to parts of Asia, adding hours to journey times. The UAE’s balancing act demonstrates a wider policy across the Middle East of discreet neutrality, as well as the United States’ inability to sway its Middle Eastern allies to join the Western camp. On the outskirts of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia’s ambitious plans to build big to attract visitors will result in a huge $63.2 billion investment to transform the nation’s birthplace into a sprawling cultural attraction. It looks like a city out of a science fiction movie: Space pods, flying dragons and floating rocks. But this is the birthplace of Islam, Saudi Arabia, which wants to transform its capital into one of “the most livable cities on Earth.” Journalist Jere Van Dyk is one of the few Westerners to spend time with the Haqqani Network, called “the most lethal insurgent group” by the US government. Eight days after a devastating earthquake struck Turkey and Syria, a relief plane touched down in the Syrian city of Aleppo, marking one of the biggest diplomatic feats for the country’s isolated regime in over a decade. A Palestinian man was shot and killed by an Israeli settler in the West Bank on Saturday, the Palestinian Ministry of Health said, naming him as Mithqal Suleiman Abdel Halim Rayan, 27. Syrian victims of the devastating earthquake that hit their country and Turkey on Monday may become hostages of the politics that have divided Syria for over a decade, analysts have warned. Christiane Amanpour speaks with Sherine Ibrahim, Country Director for CARE Türkiye, on the race to reach more survivors under the rubble caused by the massive earthquake in Turkey and Syria. For many of the Syrian victims of the devastating earthquake that hit Turkey and Syria on Monday, this is just the latest in a decade-long series of tragedies. Thousands of people have died after parts of Turkey and Syria were devastated by one of the strongest earthquakes to hit the region in a century. The US has repeatedly called on its Middle Eastern allies to support its efforts in slowing the Russian war machine, but a public threat of consequences against a close ally like the UAE is rare. Tensions in the West Bank are high as violence between the Israeli military and Palestinians has ramped up in recent weeks. Last week, Israeli forces killed ten Palestinians and wounded several others in a raid on a refugee camp in the city of ... Abu A’asem brews pot after pot of his specialty Arabic coffee, despite the pouring rain. His corner stand at the heart of Ramallah is always busy, no matter the weather, but his future as a Palestinian is very much as gloomy as the skies above. US officials believe drone attacks at a military plant in Iran’s central city of Isfahan were carried out by Israel, according to US media reports. Johns Hopkins Professor Vali Nasr tells Fareed that how Iran’s government is contending with domestic discontent and a hostile Israel. For nearly four months, protestors have taken to the streets of Iran demanding serious reforms. The popular uprising, one of the greatest threats to the authority of the Islamic Republic since its inception in 1979, is fueling infighting among the ruling ... The United Arab Emirates will soon become the first Arab nation to teach the horrors of the Nazi Holocaust in its schools, a historic move that has been praised in some quarters – but also criticized in others. Saudi Arabia’s Vice Minister of Tourism Princess Haifa Bint Muhammad Al Saud talks about tapping into potential markets, and how she sees competition with neighboring countries. Regional experts discuss the economic outlook for the Middle East, and the prospects for economic transition. The US intercepted a shipment of more than 2,000 Iranian assault rifles destined for Yemen, according to a statement from the US military. The public embrace of figures that are hated in the Arab world – and are divisive within Israel itself – is a rare gesture on the part of Arab states that have normalized relations with Israel. Former Middle East negotiator for the US state department Aaron David Miller talks about the impact Israel’s new government could have on US-Israel relations. The event that dominated the world’s news agenda in 2022 was the Ukraine war and its far-reaching repercussions. Its impact was felt deeply in the Middle East, with the region’s energy supplies, strategic waterways, and even weapons industries playing ... Jordan’s king says he is prepared for conflict should the status of Jerusalem’s holy sites change as Israel prepares to swear in what is likely to be the most right-wing government in its history. “If people want to get into a conflict with us, we’re quite ... In an exclusive interview with CNN’s Becky Anderson, King Abdullah II of Jordan says he is willing to work with “anybody and everybody” in Israel to bring about peace, but won’t allow his “red lines” over Jerusalem to be crossed. Egypt has dug itself a massive hole of debt. On Friday, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will extend a $3 billion loan to the country, a fourth aid package in six years, as its financial tailspin continues. Years of progressing ties between Saudi Arabia and China this week culminated in a multiple-day state visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping to Riyadh, where several agreements and summits heralded a “new era” of Chinese-Arab partnership. With nearly 20 million active users, Abu Dhabi-based Anghami is growing its footprint from the virtual world to the real world. China and Saudi Arabia expressed aligned policies on a range of areas from security to oil in a joint statement Friday, adding they will support each other while not interfering in each other’s internal affairs. Chinese leader Xi Jinping is visiting Saudi Arabia this week for the first time in nearly seven years, during which he signed a comprehensive strategic partnership with the world’s largest oil exporter and met leaders from across the Middle East. Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman welcomed Chinese President Xi Jinping with a lavish reception in the capital Riyadh on Thursday, as the two countries head for a number of summits heralding an “epoch-making milestone” in China’s ... Chinese President Xi Jinping landed in the Saudi Arabian capital Riyadh on Wednesday for a multiple-day visit, China’s official news agency Xinhua reported, amid frayed ties between the two countries and the United States. Several players of Morocco’s national team unfurled a Palestinian flag on the pitch while celebrating their historic World Cup win over Spain in Qatar on Tuesday. Chinese President Xi Jinping is set to arrive in Saudi Arabia on Thursday for a state visit amid tensions between the US and the two nations, according to a source with knowledge of the trip, an Arab diplomatic source and two senior Arab officials. The planned King Salman International Airport outside Riyadh, which will be designed by Foster + Partners, will be one of the world’s biggest airports with no fewer than six runways, carrying 185 million passengers by 2050. The country that has been better known as the birthplace of Islam than a rave capital has gone through a tremendous makeover since Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman took control of the everyday running of the kingdom in 2017. Soundstorm is ... Analysts have said that Erdogan had stopped short of acting on his vow to invade because he hadn’t secured a green light from Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose country has a large military presence in Syria. After Saudi Arabia’s historic win against Argentina at the Qatar World Cup, the Kingdom’s sports minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Turki Al-Faisal spoke with CNN’s Becky Anderson about its significance to the Middle East. Amid an escalation of violence in Iran, video obtained from a human rights organization shows the regime targeting the country’s Kurdish minority group. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports. Eleven people have been killed in Syria, including one journalist, after Turkish warplanes carried out an “air operation” in the country and neighboring Iraq late Saturday, according to an official from the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces ... A self-destructing drone attacked an oil tanker in the Gulf of Oman on Monday evening, according to a US military official, but did not cause major damage. At least three Israelis were killed and another three wounded when a Palestinian man went on a rampage near an Israeli settlement in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday. US Naval Forces intercepted a “large quantity” of explosive material in the Gulf of Oman heading to Yemen from Iran last week, according to a statement from US Naval Forces Central Command. As Gulf states tell the world it cannot live without the natural resource that has brought them enormous wealth, the oil and gas producers are embarking on their own clean energy projects at home. The Iranian government acknowledged for the first time Saturday that it had sent a limited number of drones to Russia in the months before the start of its invasion of Ukraine. For Iran, attacking Saudi Arabia – or even threatening to do so – is the closest it can come to hitting America without actually hitting America, and risking catastrophic consequences. United States and Saudi Arabia have shared intelligence with each other that indicates that Iran may be planning an imminent attack on energy infrastructure in the Middle East, particularly in Saudi Arabia, a US official tells CNN. Big Gulf Arab oil states are using the newfound riches they’ve reaped as a result of the Ukraine war to build economic bridges with their poorer neighbors, some of whom they once considered adversaries. The relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia is one of the most important on the planet. And lately, it’s also been one of the most awkward. Israel and Lebanon finalized an agreement defining their maritime borders in the Mediterranean on Thursday, President Joe Biden announced on Twitter, inking a United States-brokered deal at the United Nations mission on the land border ... Cholera is making a comeback in the Middle East and Africa, and its rapid rise has experts sounding alarms about the damage it is causing. CNN anchor Becky Anderson speaks with Princess Reema bint Bandar Al Saud, Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the US, about the relationship with the US following OPEC+’s decision to slash oil production, a move which aligns with Russian interests. Israel said it was targeting Lion’s Den, a new militant group which emerged in Nablus this year and has targeted Israeli soldiers, killing at least two. A top Iranian military official issued a warning to Saudi Arabia last week as his government continued to face off against protesters at home: “You are involved in this matter and know that you are vulnerable, it is better to be careful.” Veteran Middle East journalist Robin Wright tells Fareed that, in Iran, we are witnessing the world’s first counter-revolution led by women. Dubai is swapping books for bling with the opening of the stunning new Mohammed Bin Rashid Library. The striking new building, shaped like an open book, cost a reported one billion dirhams. A teenage dissident trailed behind a group of smugglers in the borderlands of western Iran. For three days, Rezan trekked a rocky mountain range and walked through minefields along a winding path forged by seasoned smugglers to circumnavigate ... The United Arab Emirates on Monday summoned the acting head of the mission at the European Union delegation to the UAE, asking for explanation of what it said were racist comments made by EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell last week. Iranian Kurdish women who fled Iran’s brutal crackdown on protests have taken up arms and are patrolling the heavily militarized Iraq-Iran border. CNN’s Nima Elbagir reports. Tensions between the US and Saudi Arabia have escalated as the US accuses Saudi Arabia of siding with Russia after OPEC+ voted to cut oil production. CNN’s Natasha Bertrand reports. Clashes erupted in the flashpoint East Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah and in the West Bank for a sixth consecutive night overnight Thursday into Friday, leaving at least two Palestinians dead. Amid decades of hostility, Lebanon and Israel on Tuesday reached a historic maritime border deal, finally demarcating a disputed area in the Mediterranean sea that is believed to be rich in oil and gas. After a rare six months of relative calm, Yemen’s warring sides last week failed to renew a truce deal. With one side backed by Iran and the other by Saudi Arabia, it remains to be seen whether the US will support its Middle Eastern ally after last ... The war against ISIS has moved to ungoverned spaces like Northern Mozambique. The fight there isn’t just about ending terrorism but about taking back control of the natural gas reserves that could potentially rival Russia. CNN’s David McKenzie gets ... Iranian-American writer Roya Hakakian explains why Mahsa Amini’s death has struck a nerve in Iran. Saudi officials insist that the kingdom must put its own economic interests ahead of domestic US political considerations. Still, US politicians are framing Saudi Arabia’s move as a hostile act against that benefits Russia by filling its coffers with ... Salam Almazrouei grew up in the Empty Quarter maze of sand dunes on Abu Dhabi’s border with Saudi Arabia. Now he’s sharing his desert knowledge with visitors to a luxury glamping site like no other. It’s long been closed off to visitors, but now this desert kingdom is opening up both to visitors and to its own people, revealing a fascinating destination where both history and modern transformation can be breathtaking. Archaeologists say this Saudi Arabian desert could hold clues to how we became the humans we are today. Abha is an oasis in the clouds where creativity and self-expression have thrived for centuries Social scenes which were once taboo are part of a new vibe reverberating across Saudi Arabia’s capital. More than 97 Palestinians killed by Israeli forces so far this year in the West Bank, making it the deadliest year in the West Bank for Palestinians killed by Israeli soldiers since 2015. The oil boom brought about by the Ukraine war has made energy-rich Middle Eastern countries extraordinarily wealthy once again. But experts warn that it may be the last such upswing. Five Syrian soldiers were killed in Israeli airstrikes that targeted Damascus International Airport and other areas near the capital, the Syrian Defense Ministry said on Saturday. Within just three decades of her rule, she witnessed her country’s supremacy in the Middle East diminish as her empire shrank. Experts say Saudi Arabia is one of the largest and most lucrative regional destinations for drugs, and that status is only intensifying. Six months on, the biggest European war since 1945 has had an outsized impact on the Middle East, with food shortages and inflation causing fear of political unrest amid a tug-of-war for allies between Russia and the West. Analysts say Gulf Arab states expect Iran to escalate tensions in the region no matter the outcome of the nuclear talks. Experts say that temperature alone isn’t an adequate measure of the livability of a city – a combination of heat and humidity is. And that’s why the Middle East is far less livable than Europe even at the same temperatures. Monsoon rain intensifies for the Southwest as hot temperature threat remains across the Northwest. CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam has the latest. US-led coalition forces repelled multiple drones near the US-led coalition At-Tanf base in Syria Monday, according to a press release from the coalition. Three Palestinian men were killed during an Israeli military operation against suspected militants in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday morning, according to information from the Palestinian health ministry. A ceasefire between Israel and the Islamic Jihad militant group in Gaza was holding on Monday after a weekend of hostilities left dozens of Palestinians dead. A ceasefire is holding following days of airstrikes and rockets between Israel and the Islamic Jihad militant group in Gaza. Both sides have declared victory after a number of casualties, and the reopening of borders has taken effect. CNN’s Hadas Gold ... Palestinian militants launched rockets toward Jerusalem on Sunday, after Israeli airstrikes in the Gaza Strip overnight killed a senior militant commander – the second since Israel’s operation against Islamic Jihad began. The Israeli military campaign against Islamic Jihad went into its second day Saturday evening with continued airstrikes on what it said were militant targets in Gaza. For many, Saudi Arabia could not be included on an itinerary unless travelling for business or religious pilgrimage. But now, the country is open, offering visitors a chance to discover sights and experiences that were once out of reach. “The Line” is touted as a one-building city in the desert which will stretch over 106 miles and house millions but critics have cast doubt on whether the project is technologically feasible, while others have described the vision unveiled in a flashy ... Saudi Arabia has unveiled designs for a one-building city that could potentially house nine million people near the Red Sea. Critics cast doubt on the feasibility of the project, whilst some called the vision “dystopian.” ISIS and al Qaeda have largely receded from the headlines, but it doesn’t mean their threat to global security has disappeared, CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen writes, responding to a UN report on jihadist movements. Countries in the Middle East must learn from the past and work together toward security and prosperity, Iraqi President Barham Salih tells Fareed. CNN’s Nic Robertson speaks with Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan Al-Sau about President Biden’s visit to the region and their conversations about Iran. Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al-Saud speaks to CNN’s Nic Robertson about US President Joe Biden’s meeting with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. President Joe Biden on Saturday capped a four-day trip to Israel and Saudi Arabia, his first trip to the Middle East since taking office. President Joe Biden on Saturday attempted to reassert US leadership in the Middle East as he met with key leaders in the region, promising his administration would stay engaged amid fears China and Russia would swiftly fill a leadership vacuum. President Joe Biden has wrapped up his four-day visit to the Middle East, his first trip to the region since assuming the Oval Office. A Russian delegation has visited an airfield in central Iran at least twice in the last month to examine weapons-capable drones, according to national security adviser Jake Sullivan and satellite imagery obtained exclusively by CNN. Saudi Arabia on Friday opened its airspace to all civilian carriers, including all flights to and from Israel, in a step toward normalizing relations between the two nations as US President Joe Biden tours the Middle East. Biden’s visit comes just weeks after Israel said that it was working with regional partners on an air defense alliance that is led by the US but Iran sees it as a provocative move and a threat against its national security. Human rights groups accuse Saudi Arabia of detaining and deporting several members of China’s Uyghur minority back to China where they face persecution, a move seen as a stinging betrayal by fellow Muslims. The family of a Uyghur man ... Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud is pursuing an ambitious program for the modernization of his kingdom. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports from the second largest city Jeddeh where progress is underway and examines the lasting impact ... Bianna Golodryga speaks with former U.S. Ambassador to Israel and U.S. Special Envoy for Israeli-Palestinian Negotiations on President Biden’s visit to the Middle East, where he will have a controversial meeting with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed ... CNN’s Hadas Gold speaks to Israelis and Palestinians ahead of President Biden’s visit to Jerusalem and Bethlehem, to get their impressions of current US engagement in the region. Fareed talks with Tarek Masoud of Harvard’s Kennedy School about President Joe Biden’s planned trip to Saudi Arabia, a country Biden once vowed to make a “pariah.” The US carried out a drone strike in northwest Syria on Tuesday that killed Maher al-Agal, the leader of ISIS in Syria, US Central Command said. Ahead of Biden’s upcoming trip to the Middle East, Aaron David Miller unpacks what the President hopes to accomplish, and why he likely chose to stop in Saudi Arabia. The US carried out a strike in Syria on Monday targeting a senior leader of Hurras al-Din, an al Qaeda-affiliated terrorist organization, according to a statement from US Central Command. While the UAE is becoming famous for its modern skyscrapers, it’s also home to historical treasures dating back thousands of years. President Joe Biden is under increasing pressure from the US’ key Middle East allies to come up with a viable plan to constrain Iran, with hopes for reviving the 2015 nuclear deal fading as Biden prepares for his first trip as President to Israel and ... Lebanon and Israel, officially at a state of war, are holding indirect talks in an effort to settle a border dispute with potentially billions of dollars at stake. President Joe Biden will visit Saudi Arabia next month, the White House announced Tuesday, a foreign policy trade-off that completes the reversal of his campaign pledge to make the kingdom a “pariah.” Long-running tensions over Iran’s nuclear capabilities may have reached a point of no return this week, thrusting the Middle East into uncharted waters. It took India less than 24 hours to discipline two politicians after a controversy that had been brewing at home for over a week caught the attention of its Arab trade partners. Bianna Golodryga speaks to Professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University Bernard Haykel about the future of US-Saudi relations. Nearly two years ago, the UAE formally ended its near-half-century boycott, and on Tuesday, it became the first Arab country to sign a free trade agreement with the Jewish state. The Jerusalem Day flag march has become a magnet for far-right Jewish extremists, some of whom were chanting “death to Arabs,” and “Arabs are sons of b*tches.” ‘Jerusalem Day’ sparks clashes between Israeli police and Palestinians as Jewish nationalists march through ​Old City. CNN’s Atika Shubert reports. Sandstorms threaten to wreak havoc on a region that’s vital to the global economy, and experts warn that the phenomeon is only expected to get worse. PM Mohammad Shtayyeh says Palestinians are ‘angry and frustrated’ after the killing of Shireen Abu Akleh, and don’t trust Israel to investigate her case. The list of attendees at Sheikh Khalifa’s funeral could shed light on the nation’s future direction and partnerships. The veteran Palestinian-American journalist was a household name in the Arab world, chronicling the suffering of Palestinians for two-and-a-half decades for millions of viewers. The Middle East has half the world’s oil but it won’t be able to help much as Europe tries to find a replacement for Russian crude. The effects of the food crisis triggered by Russia’s war in Ukraine haven’t been felt equally across the Middle East. Here’s why. Erdogan, growing in relevance on the global stage due to his diplomacy, can help restore MBS’ image in the West, while Saudi Arabia can help revive Turkey’s ailing economy. A recent spike in violence at some of Jerusalem’s key holy sites has left Jordan in a difficult position vis-a-vis its nearly century-old custodial obligations in the city. Following clashes at al-Aqsa, Jordan feels like it has been left with little choice than ... As Gulf Arab states lose faith in the United States’ commitment to their security, two Middle East archrivals are taking matters into their own hands. On Monday, Iran revealed that it held a fifth round of talks with Saudi Arabia late last week. Palestinians and Israeli security forces clashed early Thursday around the entrance to the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem’s Old City and Israel responded to rockets fired from Gaza with airstrikes, as the worst tensions in months continued to simmer. Lebanon’s Prime Minister Najib Mikati is due to visit Saudi Arabia in the next two weeks, a first trip by a Lebanese premier to the Arab powerhouse in almost four years following an unprecedented rupture in relations. Michael Young, of the Carnegie ... Palestinians and Israeli forces have clashed in and around the Al Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem’s Old City, marking a significant spike in tensions on what is a day of significance for all three of the city’s main religions. Tensions are high at one of Jerusalem’s holiest sites following clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces.  CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Palestinians are labeled terrorists for the same acts of resistance seen in Ukraine, the head of the Palestinian mission to the UK, Husam Zomlot, tells CNN’s Becky Anderson. “Portrait of a Nation II” brings together a unique collection of Emirati and expat artists and works, tracing the United Arab Emirates’ development as a cultural hub. The curator of that exhibit, Maya El Khalil, gives us a tour. Western and Ukrainian officials have praised Turkey’s drones for playing a part in countering Russian attacks. Ukrainian troops are even singing about them. Turkey maintains close ties with both nations and is cautious about touting what has ... Yemen’s exiled President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi ceded power to a presidential council on Thursday in a shock move supported by Hadi’s main backer Saudi Arabia. Why then did the Houthis reject the new presidential council? Analysts say it’s an ... Yemen’s warring parties have agreed to a nationwide truce for the first time since 2016, in the most significant step towards ending the hostilities since the war began. An analyst tells CNN what it means for the future of the conflict. The Ukraine war is wreaking havoc on the world economy, but in the Middle East its impact hasn’t been so grim for everyone. Gulf oil producers are seeing billions of dollars added to their coffers and they are expected to register their first budget ... President Joe Biden on Friday celebrated April as Arab American Heritage Month and thanked the Arab American community “for representing the best of who we are.” The Saudi-led military alliance and the Iran-aligned Houthi movement, who have been at war in Yemen since 2015, agreed to a two-month truce Friday, marking a significant step toward ending the conflict in years. As Russia’s war rages in Ukraine, its impact on the Middle East is beginning to stretch beyond the food shortages that already had some policymakers worried. A series of terror attacks and violent incidents have put Israel and the Palestinian territories on edge again. A landmark meeting in Israel this week sheds light on the emerging global multipolarity and how Middle Eastern states adjust to the new realities by realigning their alliances. The Saudi-led coalition fighting the Houthi group in Yemen said late on Tuesday it would halt military operations from Wednesday, following a United Nations’ call for a truce during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. As Russian and Ukrainian delegations arrive in Istanbul for peace talks, Turkey’s unique political position is under the spotlight, Galip Dalay writes. Could the nation that straddles Europe and the Middle East emerge as peacemaker? ISIS operatives killed two people and injured six in a shooting attack Sunday in the Israeli city of Hadera, some 31 miles north of Tel Aviv, Israeli officials said. After weeks of signals from Iranian and Western officials that a deal to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement was imminent, an escalation in rhetoric between Tehran and the United States over the weekend dampened hopes for a breakthrough on the ... Here’s what you need to know about the role Qatar can play in Europe’s efforts to wean itself off Russian gas as Moscow presses on with its war on Ukraine. For Egypt and other Middle Eastern nations grappling with the impact of the Ukraine war, rising prices are cause for concern. Just 10 years ago, revolutions across the region toppled longtime dictators partly because of a rise in the price of commodities. The release of two British-Iranian citizens was however the conclusion of just one chapter in a long history of prisoners that have become bargaining chips in the political squabbles between the Islamic Republic and the West. Six years before its Ukraine war, Russia began another ruthless military operation thousands of kilometers away in Syria – to prop up the Bashar al-Assad regime. Victims of that war say the scenes from Ukraine on their television screens look ... CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports that many of the Russian tactics in Ukraine are familiar to Syrians who suffered a similar fate when Russia attacked Syria. The attack came as world powers are engaged in talks to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear agreement, which could see over a million barrels a day of currently sanctioned Iranian crude coming to the market amid rising oil prices. The UAE suggested that it may support an increase in oil output within the framework of OPEC+. We ask energy expert Amena Bakr how likely that is to happen. Israel has been walking a tightrope between Ukraine and Russia for several weeks. That’s largely due to security considerations on its northern border, where Russia has a large military presence. Aaron David Miller writes one could be forgiven for thinking that as America’s closest ally in the Middle East, Israel would provide unwavering support for the Ukrainians. But Israel’s unique interests in the region are forcing Jerusalem to navigate a course ... The Islamic State (ISIS) has claimed responsibility for Friday’s attack on a Shia mosque in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar that killed at least 61 people and injured another 196. Western war reporters, more used to being deployed in Middle East conflict zones, were quick to make comparisons with Ukraine. Some of those comparisons went overboard, causing outrage in the Arab world. The United States’ closest Middle East allies on Wednesday condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, in a break from their previously neutral statements and a nod to the changing nature of a war that has created over a million refugees in just a week. The United Arab Emirates surprised its Western allies last week when it abstained on a US-drafted United Nations Security Council resolution condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Here’s why the West is struggling to get an unequivocal condemnation ... When the world’s biggest cryptocurrency exchange Binance decided to set up an advisory body in Dubai, local bitcoin enthusiasts celebrated. But Binance isn’t even licensed as an exchange in Dubai. It’s awaiting final approval for a license in a ... A Russian invasion of Ukraine would send shockwaves across Europe and perhaps as far west as the United States. But a region further south may find itself an unlikely victim of a potential conflict. With its sights set on the crisis in Ukraine and China’s rising power, the United States is seen to be disengaging from the Middle East. But recent events may force it to reconsider. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived in the UAE on Monday, capping off reconciliation efforts that are set to end almost a decade of animosity between Ankara and Abu Dhabi. Here’s how the two fell out and reconciled. Iraqi-Kurdish politician Hoshyar Zebari’s bid to run for the presidency faces a major hurdle, dealing a blow to kingmaker Moqtada al-Sadr’s ambitions to form a government without Iran’s allies. Large crowds turned out in the West Bank city of Nablus Tuesday for the funerals of three men shot dead by Israeli forces. The so-called caliphate has lost its leader again, but experts warn the resurgence of the group is likely to press on undeterred. Just two days after the leader of ISIS killed himself during a US raid in northern Syria, a United Nations report says the terror group is far from vanquished. In fact, it remains a potent force in Iraq and Syria, with a growing presence in Afghanistan and West ... ISIS leader Abu Ibrahim al-Hashimi al-Qurayshi was killed during a US counterterrorism raid in northwest Syria, which also left 13 civilians dead, including six children. CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports from the Pentagon. Video of machine-gun fire and photos of the aftermath have emerged after US Special Forces conducted a “successful” counterterrorism mission in northwest Syria, the Pentagon said. It is the biggest US raid in the country since the 2019 operation that ... Three hostile drones were intercepted over the United Arab Emirates at dawn on Wednesday, the country’s defense ministry said. Qatar is on its way to becoming a major non-NATO ally of the United States, a sign of its growing relevance to Washington’s global agenda. Here’s how it got there. The United States joined the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Monday to intercept and destroy a ballistic missile as the Israeli President was in the country on a historic visit, according to authorities. The attack marks the third such incident in January. Authorities in the United Arab Emirates say they intercepted and destroyed a ballistic missile. The UAE’s ministry of defense released nosecone footage they say shows the destruction of the missile platform and launch site in Yemen. There have been a ... After a powerful nor’easter brought heavy snowfall and high winds to the East Coast, another big storm could impact the Central and Eastern US. CNN meteorologist Pedram Javaheri has the forecast. A winter storm brought snow and winds to parts of the US East Coast Saturday. Follow here for live updates. Jordanian soldiers killed 27 armed drug smugglers as they tried to enter the country from Syria on Thursday, an army spokesman said. The United Arab Emirates public prosecutors’ office said on Wednesday it had summoned several people for sharing videos showing defense systems intercepting Monday’s missile attack by Yemen’s Houthi movement. Israeli settlers in a convoy of cars rampaged through a Palestinian town in the West Bank near Nablus on Monday evening, marking the latest in a string of violent incidents involving settlers in recent months. The United Arab Emirates will continue on the track of de-escalation with Iran despite rising attacks on Abu Dhabi by the Iranian-backed Houthis based in Yemen, the Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates to the United Nations told ... The US military joined with the United Arab Emirates on Monday to counter a missile attack by Yemen’s Houthis on an air base near its capital Abu Dhabi, where approximately 2,000 American service members and personnel are stationed, US ... CNN’s Sam Kiley reports on the escalating attacks from Yemen’s Iranian-backed Houthi rebels and its impact on Iran’s nuclear negotiations with the West. The coalition led by Saudi Arabia fighting in Yemen denied that it deliberately targeted a detention center in airstrikes on Friday that killed dozens and caused a nationwide internet blackout. Unusual wintry weather has transformed the deserts of Saudi Arabia into a white landscape, drawing crowds of locals eager to experience the rare sight. Three Syrian children have died, with hundreds of thousands of people “at great risk” following heavy winter storms in Syria and neighboring countries, according to humanitarian organization CARE. The Middle East, A deadly drone attack in the heart of the United Arab Emirates’ capital has thrust the Middle East into uncharted waters at a time when the region’s leaders have sought to heal years-long rifts. The Saudi led-coalition fighting in Yemen launched airstrikes on the Yemeni capital on Monday, shortly after Iranian-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for a deadly drone attack in the United Arab Emirates. Yemen’s Iranian-backed Houthi rebels have claimed responsibility for an attack in the United Arab Emirates and threatened more to come. CNN’s Sam Kiley reports. Archaeologists have discovered a 4,500-year-old highway network in Saudi Arabia lined with well-preserved ancient tombs. President Joe Biden is nominating Army Lt. Gen. Michael Erik Kurilla to be the next commander of US Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, according to multiple defense officials and nomination paperwork sent ... The Middle East and wider Arab world has seen a surge in local talent who are creating contemporary fashion for a unique consumer base. As 2021 grinds to an end and as a whirlwind of diplomacy picks up speed, a new geopolitical fault-line has appeared – the Middle East is becoming a political and economic battleground for the US and China. US intelligence agencies have assessed that Saudi Arabia is now actively manufacturing its own ballistic missiles with the help of China, CNN has learned, a development that could have significant ripple effects across the Middle East and ... US intelligence and satellite images show Saudi Arabia is now actively developing its own ballistic missiles with the help of China. CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports. US intelligence agencies have assessed that Saudi Arabia is now actively manufacturing its own ballistic missiles with the help of China. CNN’s Natasha Bertrand explains how this could impact US policy toward the kingdom. David Andelman writes that America’s allies in the Gulf are looking for new friends — and France is stepping up. Earlier this month, French President Emmanuel Macron sealed a $19 billion weapons deal with the United Arab Emirates. For the first time in history an Israeli Prime Minister has made an official visit to the United Arab Emirates. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has met with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed at his private palace in Abu Dhabi, marking the first official visit of an Israeli Prime Minister to the United Arab Emirates 15 months after the signing ... Across the Middle East and North Africa, talk of emigration is rampant. Though guns have largely fallen silent in most of the region’s conflict zones, much of the misery has not let up. New York Times reporter and author of “Rise and Kill First” Ronen Bergman discusses the escalating tensions, sabotage and cyber attacks between Israel and Iran. The United Arab Emirates’ de facto ruler landed Wednesday in Turkey’s capital as part of a diplomatic spree to end regional rifts that have defined the Middle East for over a decade. After years of political tension over regional issues, Turkey and the UAE are now looking for closer ties as Abu Dhabi’s Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan will meet President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Both countries are looking to ... Multinational corporations are moving their Middle East regional headquarters to Saudi Arabia to tap into tech opportunities like the joint venture between NEOM and OneWeb. The United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdallah bin Zayed met Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus on Tuesday, in the most senior Emirati visit to the country since the start of Syria’s war in 2011. Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi escaped an assassination attempt on Sunday after an explosive-laden drone targeted his residence in Baghdad, the country’s military said. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports. Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi escaped an assassination attempt on Sunday after an explosive-laden drone targeted his residence in Baghdad, the country’s military said. Armed groups fighting Ethiopia’s central government are swelling in numbers as they advance on the capital, Addis Ababa, posing the biggest threat to embattled Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s rule since a bloody year-long conflict began in the country’s ... Expecting a possible siege, pro-government forces in central Yemen are preparing to defend Marib city, their last northern stronghold, against advancing Houthi fighters bent on taking full control of one of Yemen’s key energy-producing regions. Richard Quest travels to the ancient, biblical and wondrous land of Jordan as the country tries to woo tourists back to its epic landscapes. Eating falafel on the streets of Amman is almost cliché – unless you’re with Jordan’s Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein. A Houthi ballistic missile attack on a mosque and a religious school killed and injured 29 civilians, including women and children, in the Yemeni province of Marib, the country’s information minister said in a statement on Twitter on Monday. From harnessing the power of the sun to turning trash into energy, this is how the region is trying to turn the tide on climate change. A level 3 out of 5 severe weather threat shifts east towards the Gulf Coast.  CNN Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri has the latest forecast. Saudi Arabia’s crown prince said on Saturday that the world’s top oil exporter aims to reach zero-net emissions by 2060 and will more than double its annual target to reduce carbon emissions. A “deliberate and coordinated” attack utilizing drones and indirect fire targeted US troops at the US base at At-Tanf in Syria, close to the border with Jordan, on Wednesday, according to US Central Command, which oversees operations in the ... Four children were among at least 10 people killed in Syrian regime strikes in the northwestern rebel-held area of Idlib on Wednesday, a rescue group said. The Middle Eastern country has announced plans to convert an oil rig into a 150,000 square attraction located in the Arabian Gulf. The worst violence the Lebanese capital has seen in more than a dozen years is bringing fears of a return to civil war to the surface, especially in a country where there’s no shortage of weapons, but state authority is in dire short supply. CNN’s ... CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports as Idlib province in northwest Syria is ravaged by a Covid-19 outbreak. Bahrain, Russia and other members of the UN Human Rights Council pushed through a vote on Thursday to shut down the body’s war crimes investigations in Yemen, in a stinging defeat for Western states who sought to keep the mission going. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has become the first country in the Persian Gulf to commit to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. But it’s not turning its back on oil just yet. CNN’s Becky Anderson speaks with the UAE’s Minister for Climate Change and ... The Middle East and Africa lag behind when it comes to formal e-waste recycling, but Enviroserve’s Dubai facility is trying to change that. Critically acclaimed Qatari composer and songwriter Dana Al Fardan is releasing a new album, “Indigo,” that is a personal introspection of life during the pandemic. Iraqi President Barham Salih tells Fareed that despite new US strategic priorities, “you can’t walk away from the Middle East.” Five Palestinians have been killed and two arrested Saturday night as part of a days-long operation targeting Hamas in the West Bank, the Israel Defense Forces said. French forces have killed Adnan Abou Walid al Sahraoui, leader of the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISIS-GS), in a drone strike, the French government announced on Thursday. The United Arab Emirates will pour £10 billion ($13.8 billion) into the United Kingdom over the next five years, as the Gulf state seeks to diversify its economy beyond fossil fuels. Tropical Storm Conson and Typhoon Chanthu threaten to bring strong winds, heavy rain, flooding and mudslides to portions of East Asia over the next several days.  CNN Meteorologist Tom Sater has the latest forecast. The dramatic scenes from Afghanistan have sounded alarm bells throughout the Middle East, raising the specter of a hasty undoing of an economic and political order that has hinged on, or sought to counter, a large US presence in the region. ISIS-K, the Islamic State in Afghanistan, has a record of terror bombings and casualties that pose a continuing threat. And there are other extremists, too. The ferries that once shuttled tourists to and from the little islets in Iran’s Lake Urmia sit rusty, unable to move, on what is rapidly becoming a salt plain. Just two decades ago, Urmia was the Middle East’s biggest lake, its local economy a thriving tourist ... As US forces prepare to end their combat mission in Iraq, Peshmerga Maj. Gen. Sirwan Barzani writes that America shouldn’t abandon its Kurdish allies – or give up its active role in the fight against ISIS. The crumbling remains of abandoned fishing villages on the northwest coast of Qatar offer a fascinating journey into the country’s past before the oil and gas-fueled economic boom drew people away from traditional maritime ways of life. Virgin beaches, ancient ruins and public art. Zekreet Peninsula, in Qatar’s northwest, is the perfect destination for a one day trip to escape the hustle and bustle of the capital Doha. Virgin beaches, ancient ruins and public art. Zekreet Peninsula, in Qatar’s northwest, is the perfect destination for a one day trip to escape the hustle and bustle of the capital Doha. With dunes falling abruptly into the water, Qatar’s Inland Sea lures thousands of off-roaders looking to reconnect with nature. Maritime tensions are escalating in the Middle East following the deadly attack on a tanker connected to an Israeli billionaire in the Arabian Sea. The Jordanian monarch joins Fareed for a wide ranging discussion on the Middle East and the King’s relationship with President Biden. Fareed asks King Abdullah II of Jordan whether he believes Saudi Arabia will be the next Arab country to normalize relations with Israel. A new United Nations report says that nearly 20 years after the September 11th attacks, Islamist terrorism remains a major threat around the world, especially in East and West Africa. In the Western world, they say, pandemic travel restrictions have ... Nowhere is the gaming industry growing faster than the Middle East, and Dubai-based PLG is producing gaming tournaments, talk shows and livestreams for the region. The Middle East and North Africa is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases aggravated by the Delta variant of the virus – and it may get worse over coming weeks – according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Rockets landed at a US military base in eastern Syria, prompting US forces to return fire on Monday, a day after the US carried out airstrikes on Iranian-backed militias, according to a spokesman for the US-led military mission in Syria. The Pentagon is pulling missile defense systems and other military hardware and personnel from Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle East, according to a defense official, as it realigns its mission and forces to confront China and Russia. The Israeli military struck targets in Gaza overnight Wednesday, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said in a statement, citing incendiary balloons launched from Gaza earlier in the day. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. A controversial right-wing Flag March through east Jerusalem is underway after being approved by Israel’s new government. CNN’s Hadas Gold has the details. Anthony David writes that the inclusion of the first Arab party in an Israeli coalition government could bring permanent change to the country’s politics. If the gamble by Mansour Abbas, the Islamist leader of the United Arab List, pans out “he could be ... France is to end its years-long anti-terror mission targeting Islamists in the Sahel region of West Africa, French President Emmanuel Macron announced Thursday. After reports of Uyghur disappearances in some major Arab countries, such as the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Egypt, some of China’s ethnic Muslims fear they are no longer safe in parts of the Islamic world. CNN has collected dozens of accounts that detail the alleged detention and deportation of Uyghurs at China’s request in three major Arab countries: Egypt, the UAE and Saudi Arabia. China, Egypt, the UAE and Saudi Arabia have not responded ... The “We Remember” Holocaust exhibition has opened at the Crossroads of Civilizations Museum in Dubai. It’s billed as the first Holocaust exhibition to be staged in the Arab world The Crossroads of Civilizations Museum in Dubai has opened its “We Remember” exhibit, revealing first-hand testimonies of Holocaust survivors. It’s the first of its kind in the Arab world. Despite the US announcement to provide immediate disaster assistance to Gaza, the future for many civilians living in Gaza – which has been under an Israeli-Egyptian blockade since 2007 – is bleak with little chance to step foot outside the area. ... A strong and lasting peace in the Middle East may seem far off given the recent heightened tensions in the West Bank, including Jerusalem, and Gaza, but that should still be the goal for the US, Egypt and, most importantly, Israelis and the ... The United States will make “significant contributions” to rebuild Gaza and reopen its consulate in Jerusalem following the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on the first day of his first official visit to the ... Peter Beinart, Noura Erakat, Dan Senor, and Fareed lay out how they think Israelis, Palestinians and the World should think about the future of the region. CNN’s Fareed Zakaria says now that Israel is now the economic and military superpower in the Middle East, Israeli leaders have no practical reason to make a deal with Palestinians … but do have a moral one. US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken says a peaceful two-state solution between Israel and Palestinians is the “first order of business” of the Biden administration’s Middle East policy. Fareed gives his take on why Mideast violence will keep happening until it is resolved through moral persuasion. Mohammad Shtayyeh, the Palestinian Prime Minister, says there is “a machine of destruction” in Israel that needs to stop. After the declaration of a ceasefire brought an end to more than 10 days of conflict between Gaza and Israel, Palestinians can rest a little easier. But they say their day-to-day reality hasn’t changed. In a CNN interview that was supposed to focus on the United Nations finding a solution to the violence between Israel and Hamas, Pakistan’s top diplomat Shah Mahmood Qureshi instead made an anti-Semitic remark. It’s over. The bombs and rockets no longer fall; on Friday night families in Gaza City ventured out to stroll around the main square, or sit on the benches. It was before 8 a.m. ET on Wednesday and President Joe Biden was on the phone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the fourth time in a week. Peter Bergen writes that President Donald Trump’s shadow secretary of state, Jared Kushner, had a sole diplomatic achievement, grandiosely termed the “Abraham Accords.” Now we can see how badly Trump and Kushner misunderstood the ... Israeli security forces used stun grenades and rubber bullets against Palestinians outside the Al Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, where thousands of worshipers had been attending Friday prayers, puncturing a half-day of calm brought on by a ceasefire ... Palestinian writer Mariam Barghouti reacts to the Israel Hamas ceasefire and gives a glimpse into the daily lives of Palestinians. Discussing Israel’s actions in Gaza, Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said Israel has “deep pockets” and “they control media,” prompting strong pushback from CNN’s Bianna Golodryga. Heavy rain continues along the Gulf Coast and shifts east towards the Arklatex region.  CNN Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri has the details. A ceasefire in the bloody Israeli-Palestinian conflict could be “imminent, possibly within 24 hours,” Hamas officials told CNN Wednesday, as world leaders dialed up pressure on both sides to end the fighting. Israel, however, has not commented on ... The deadly ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the kind of challenge you might think the United Nations could address. After all, it played a major role in establishing Israel as a state more than 70 years ago, what Palestinians refer to as the Nakba or ... Israeli warplanes continued to pound Gaza on Tuesday and rocket fire into Israel resumed after a brief lull, as Palestinian protesters hit the streets in cities across the West Bank and elsewhere. Israel and the Palestinian territories are experiencing the deadliest violence the region has seen in years. Here’s a timeline of events explaining why tensions escalated so quickly. CNN’s Bianna Golodryga talks with Arab-Israeli lawmaker Aida Touma Suleiman about the ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict as Israeli warplanes continue to pound Gaza, and Palestinian protesters hit the streets in cities across the West Bank and ... Haaretz columnist Noa Landau calls out Israelis across the political spectrum for ignoring Palestinian voices in Israel and the occupied territories. Another tragic Middle East conflict is offering fresh insight into Joe Biden’s sometimes ruthless calculations about the purpose of his presidency and his view of America’s global role. As the latest Israeli-Palestinian conflict enters its second week, CNN’s Nic Robertson reports from near the Gaza border on whether a ceasefire is on the horizon. Startup Baraka wants to tap into the growing demand for commission-free trading platforms, while also educating inexperienced investors in the Middle East. Thousands gathered in major cities across the United States over the weekend to support Palestinians as Israel’s military launches massive airstrikes on Gaza and the death toll mounts. Israeli warplanes launched a fresh round of massive airstrikes in Gaza, bombing more than nine miles of Hamas’ tunnel system in Gaza and targeting nine residences that the Israeli military said belonged to commanders from the Palestinian militant ... Israel bombed the house of Hamas’ Gaza leader and obliterated a family’s home in Gaza as Hamas launched more than 100 rockets towards Israel on Sunday. Dean Obeidallah writes that the days of denying the humanity of Palestinians must end. If history serves as a guide, the conflict will slowly fade from the headlines after a ceasefire is reached “and the Palestinians will largely be forgotten—yet again. For ... Former U.S. special envoy Martin Indyk & modern Arab studies Prof. Rashid Khalidi break down the latest escalation between Israel and Palestine. The current explosion of violence between Palestinians and the state of Israel is yet to inflict as many casualties as the devastating 2014 Gaza conflict, but in many ways is a bleaker and more foreboding episode. Confrontation is not confined to aerial ... Conflict between Israelis and Palestinians boiled over this week, escalating rapidly into one of the worst rounds of violence between the two sides in the last several years. Israel bombed a house in Gaza where a family had gathered to celebrate the end of Ramadan and an office housing international media as a new flurry of Hamas missiles rained down on Tel Aviv Saturday, increasing fears that a de-escalation of the ... At least 10 Palestinians were killed Friday by Israeli forces during violent clashes in towns and cities across the West Bank, the Gaza-based Palestinian Health Ministry said in a statement, as sirens continued to blare all day across southern Israel, ... Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks out against clashes between Jewish and Arab citizens as violence between Israel and Hamas continues. CNN’s Hadas Gold reports. Gaza came under heavy artillery fire early Friday morning, amid reports – later conclusively denied – that the Israeli army had launched a possible ground invasion of the Strip. As the Israeli military and Palestinian militants in Gaza exchange deadly airstrikes and rocket bombardments, rioting and violent clashes have also swept through several Israeli cities between Arab and Jewish citizens. Video shows ​mob violence between ​Arabs and Jews in ​two Israeli cities following days of air strikes and rocket attack​s. CNN’s John Vause has more. Entering office, President Joe Biden hoped to shift US foreign policy away from the Middle East and toward areas he thought of as more modern-day threats: China, Russia and cyberspace. The worst violence in years between Israelis and Palestinians showed no signs of letting up Wednesday, as continued Israeli airstrikes and Hamas rocket fire prompted the United Nations to warn the conflict could mushroom into “full-scale war.” Since Monday evening, Israel’s aerial operation has left more than 60 Gazans dead, militants among them, but more civilians, according to figures from the Gaza-based Palestinian health ministry. More than a dozen of were children. Additionally, more ... Israeli airstrikes struck Gaza while Hamas and Islamic Jihad fired rockets out of the territory into Israel. CNN’s Ben Wedeman takes us inside the hell that is, once again, being unleashed on this small, crowded place. Tzipi Hotovely, Israel’s ambassador to the UK, says the solution to the current conflict is simple: ‘when Hamas will stop firing, Israel will stop firing.’ Aaron David Miller and Daniel Kurtzer write that the Biden administration must do everything it can to defuse the latest crisis to erupt between Israelis and Palestinians. This will require a multipronged diplomatic effort that is based on a clear division of ... “Marhaba” – hello in Arabic – began the brief text the middle-aged Jerusalem housewife found on her cell phone Monday evening. “You have been identified participating in violent acts at Al Aqsa mosque. You will be held accountable. Israeli ... CNN’s Rosemary Church speaks with Dr. Mustafa Barghouti, President of the Palestinian National Initiative political party, about the intensifying violence between Israelis and Palestinians. Tensions between Israel and Palestinians escalated further on Tuesday as Palestinian militants in Gaza fired hundreds of rockets into Israel, which in turn ramped up airstrikes on the coastal enclave, as unrest spread to cities and towns beyond ... CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports on escalating rocket fire as Palestinian militants in Gaza fired hundreds of rockets into Israel, which in turn ramped up airstrikes on the coastal enclave, as unrest spread to cities and towns beyond Jerusalem. Two veteran peace negotiators, Aaron David Miller and Jordan’s Marwan Muasher, fear the cycle of violence won’t end as long as Israeli occupation continues. Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza have been exchanging fire through the night after clashes in Jerusalem Monday left hundreds injured and tensions sky high, prompting an uptick in the violence, official sources and pictures showed. Israeli police have clashed with Palestinians in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah, as well as other locations, for several weeks. One of the main sources of unrest has been the possible eviction of several Palestinian families from their ... Palestinian politician Mustafa Barghouti and Israel Green Party head Stav Shaffir discuss a ‘sad and risky combination of tensions’ threatening the region As the country is in the grips of an economic and political crisis, skyrocketing food prices have made marking Ramadan very difficult for many people. Ben Wedeman reports from Beirut. Clashes between Palestinians from east Jerusalem and Israeli police around the Damascus gate entrance to the Old City erupted in a night of unrest that earlier saw Jewish extremists marching through another city street shouting “Death to Arabs.” Clashes between Palestinians from east Jerusalem and Israeli police around the Damascus gate entrance to the Old City erupted in a night of unrest that earlier saw Jewish extremists marching through another city street shouting “Death to Arabs.” ... Marib is a tiny island of hope in a sea of discarded dreams. After six years of war, the city of more than 2 million people has emerged as pivotal in Yemen’s future. In Yemen, fierce clashes in the last major northern stronghold for the internationally recognized government could mark a turning point in the deadly six-year conflict. The oil-rich city of Marib is now at the center of a military escalation by Iran-backed ... Denmark has become the first democratic European nation to tell Syrian refugees originating from Damascus and its surrounding countryside to return to the war-torn nation. Critics say it’s the latest crackdown aimed at the country’s non-White ... Israeli journalist Ronen Bergman reports it’s no coincidence that the attack on Natanz – seemingly by Israel – came during new nuclear talks with Iran. Israel’s army chief has appeared to hint at possible Israeli involvement in an incident at the Natanz nuclear site in Iran, which was described as “terrorist action” by the head of Iran’s atomic energy agency. Israel’s army chief has appeared to hint at possible Israeli involvement in an incident at the Natanz nuclear site in Iran, which was described as “terrorist action” by the head of Iran’s atomic energy agency. Iranian officials on April 11 confirmed an ... Kim Ghattas, Ruel Marc Gerecht, Vali Nasr and Fareed map out the tough road ahead for the US as it considers winding down its involvement in the region. Clashes between rival groups have claimed more than 50 lives in the city of El Geneina in the volatile west Darfur region of Sudan, according to Sudanese medical groups. For a country often seen as a bastion of relative calm in a troubled region, the events that unfolded in Jordan over the weekend were among the most dramatic in decades. The culture of Arab Americans will be honored this month, with the designation by the State Department of April as Arab American Heritage Month, reflecting the group’s contributions to the US “are as old as America itself,” a spokesman said. As President Biden withdraws military support for the Saudi coalition in Yemen, Houthi rebels are stepping up attacks on Saudi Arabia. Nic Robertson reports. Saudi Arabia’s FM joined Becky Anderson for a wide-ranging and extended interview. They discussed relations with the US, the war in Yemen, the return to the JCPOA, and normalization with Israel. Arab Americans are forced to tick “White” or “other” on the Census and medical paperwork, which means that public health data collected on the community is largely anecdotal. I love Baghdad. It’s the city where I feel most at home. I can’t quite explain it, perhaps it’s because it’s the place whose people, whose story – tragic as it is – has had the most influence on who I am today. Saudi Arabia announced on Monday an initiative to end Yemen’s conflict and begin an immediate ceasefire with Iran-backed Houthi rebels. The Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen unleashed dozens of air strikes against what it called Houthi military targets in the country’s north, including the capital Sanaa and the port of Salif on the Red Sea coast. Over the last 10 years, as Syria fell deeper into the abyss, the country has burned and President Bashar al-Assad has clung to power. An uprising that started peacefully has left as many as half a million dead by some estimates. CNN’s Ben Wedeman looks ... The United Arab Emirates has publicly distanced itself from Benjamin Netanyahu over concerns the Israeli Prime Minister was using Abu Dhabi to boost his prospects in upcoming Israeli elections. Why Dubai is fast becoming a must-visit destination for kitesurfers. Top Trump adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner resurfaced on Sunday by penning a Wall Street Journal op-ed about the Middle East, his first public remarks since the end of the Trump administration and offering a potential indication into how he will seek ... In 2011 a peaceful uprising in Syria quickly turned violent, and eventually grew into a civil war. Thousands have been killed, millions displaced. An entire generation of children have been forced to grow up with the conflict dictating their lives. To mark ... ISIS militants were behind Thursday’s brutal killings north of Baghdad where they shot dead eight people in three separate attacks, including six family members, according to an Iraqi military statement released Friday. Fairey’s first show in the region, “Future Mosaic,” opens on March 15 at Dubai’s Opera Gallery, and features 150 works including a largescale mural. A heartbreaking CNN investigation shows how dire the situation is on the ground in Yemen, finding it’s been more than two months since the US-backed Saudi blockade has allowed tankers packed with the necessary fuel for food and supplies to reach ... In the space of 50 years, Dubai has grown from a small trading outpost into one of the planet’s most iconic cities. So what was it like before oil transformed it into a glitzy destination defined by its spectacular skyline. From wandering deserts to exploring the heavens, the Gulf emirate has seen it all in just 50 years. The future of the ancient Christian communities in the Middle East is in doubt on the eve of Pope Francis’ historic trip to Iraq. CNN’s Ben Wedeman, reporting from Erbil, Iraq, looks at the factors behind this mass exodus over the years. Yemen’s Houthi rebels have taken control of 10 out of 14 districts of the strategic northern city of Marib, the Houthi deputy foreign minister, Hussein al-Ezzi, told CNN Wednesday. Arab-Israeli leaders are calling for greater involvement from police and Israeli intelligence service Shin Bet to combat a wave of violent crime that’s hit Israeli-Arab towns and cities. CNN’s Sam Kiley reports. The US military struck a site in Syria used by two Iranian-backed militia groups following rocket attacks on American forces in the region in the past two weeks, according to a US official. The image of Yemen that most see in the US is a bleak one: war-torn, plagued by hunger and disease, hopeless. But these horrors are an incomplete snapshot of the real Yemen. The country I know and love — and have been fighting for since before ... Ten years ago, mass protests demanding freedom and dignity rocked the Arab World and for a while, hope soared that decades of decay and dictatorship were coming to an end. But internal divisions, foreign intervention, war and authoritarians who ... Activist Tawakkol Karman, 2011 Nobel Peace Prize winner, and journalist Robert Worth explain what it will take to end the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. Fareed asks Javad Zarif for his reaction to the evolution of US Middle East policy during the four years of the Trump administration. Egyptian novelist Ahdaf Souief and Amnesty International’s Amna Guellali discuss how the region has changed since the revolutions one decade ago. While oil-rich Gulf Arab nations were among the first in the world to receive a vaccine, war-torn countries such as Yemen and Syria must contend with vague timelines and complex distribution plans for the rollout. Iran has unveiled an underground base for “strategic missiles” on its Gulf coastline, according to state media. The US military flew two B-52 bombers to the Middle East Thursday from their base in the United States – the fourth such deployment and show of force by the US Air Force aimed at sending a message to Iran in the past two months. Gulf Arab countries signed a declaration aimed at resolving a long-running dispute with Qatar on Tuesday, in a public reconciliation between Doha and its neighbors that paves the way for the end of an embargo on the tiny gas-rich nation. Saudi Arabia and Qatar have agreed to reopen their airspace and maritime borders starting Monday, after a years long freeze on relations, Kuwaiti officials have announced. President Donald Trump directed acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller to reverse course and order a US aircraft carrier to return to the Middle East following a White House meeting Sunday, according to a senior defense official. Incoming National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan breaks down what the next administration will strive to achieve in the next four years. The US flew nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East Wednesday in the latest show of force meant to deter Iran, as defense officials remain divided over the risk posed by the regime and the Iraq-based militias it supports. The US military flew nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East Wednesday “to underscore the US military’s commitment to regional security and demonstrate a unique ability to rapidly deploy overwhelming combat power on short notice,” ... The US flew nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East in the latest show of force meant to deter Iran. US defense officials remain divided over the risk posed by the regime and the Iraq-based militias it supports in the days surrounding the ... Fareed and Noah Feldman look back at 10 years of political turmoil in the Arab world, and what lessons can be drawn from it. The U.S. Ambassador to the UAE talks to Becky Anderson about Israel’s normalization deals with Arab States, the sale of F-35’s and the expanding role of China in the Middle East. Hanan Ashrawi tells Christiane why she stepped down from the PLO Executive Committee but is still hopeful for peace in the Middle East. On Thursday, Morocco became the fourth Arab state this year to announce it would establish relations with Israel. It was another diplomatic win for the Trump administration, with US President Donald Trump tweeting that it was “a massive ... Jordan moved fast early on in the coronavirus pandemic with one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, making the country one of the few success stories in the fight against Covid-19. But over the past couple of months Jordan has seen a spike in ... Morocco has become the fourth country in the Middle East and North African region to agree to establish full diplomatic relations with Israel, an 11th-hour foreign policy achievement for the lame duck Trump administration as it seeks to shore up ... Saudi Arabia has seen profound changes in recent years. Many Saudis show support for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who is bringing about a series of reforms. However, human rights observers remain skeptical. CNN’s Nic Robertson reports ... Five years of social reform driven by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman have drastically loosened the conservative grip on Saudi society. CNN’s Nic Robertson says it could yet prove to be a magnet for tourism. Saudi Arabia and Qatar have taken ‘significant’ steps to resolve their three-year dispute, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan al-Saud said in a virtual diplomatic conference on Friday. Never has the process of normalization been so fast, and pursued with such mutual enthusiasm, as between Israel and the UAE, Ben Wedeman writes. French architect Jean Nouvel is behind the Sharaan Resort project in the AlUla desert in Saudi Arabia, due to open in 2023. An Israeli Minister claims Benjamin Netanyahu went to meet Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince, but the Kingdom’s Foreign Minister says no such meeting happened. Becky Anderson gets the latest from Riyadh and Jerusalem. The family of Loujain al-Hathloul, a jailed Saudi women’s rights defender believed by her family and advocacy organizations to be on hunger strike, has called on the G20 to demand that Saudi Arabia release the prominent activist. The family of Loujain al-Hathloul, a jailed Saudi women’s rights defender believed by her relatives and advocacy organizations to be on a hunger strike, has called on the G20 to demand that Saudi Arabia release the prominent activist. G20 leaders are ... Denmark’s Emily Kristine Pedersen wins the inaugural Saudi Ladies International after a play-off with England’s Georgia Hall. History is being made on the ladies European Tour. They’re playing in Saudi Arabia, becoming the first professional women’s sporting event to ever be held there. Former top US official on Syria and the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS James Jeffrey assesses four years of Trump foreign policy and the challenges ahead. On a rare trip to Dubai, Deputy Mayor of Jerusalem, Fleur Hassan-Nahoum, tells Becky Anderson that East Jerusalem’s Palestinian population could benefit from budding trade between Israel and the UAE. The US election could change the political calculus of major players in the Middle East. CNN’s Sam Kiley breaks down where President Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s stand with regard to their Middle East policy. The Dubai Expo is now set for October 2021. As the grand opening approaches, preparations are well underway for the Middle East’s first ever World Expo. US Middle East policy under the Trump administration has been a wild, careening ride of brinksmanship and blundering, of confused and contradictory priorities, of Twitter diplomacy and bluster. For decades, Israelis couldn’t travel to the UAE and its dazzling city of Dubai – or vice versa. That’s all changed with new diplomatic relations. Find out what residents of Israel and Dubai hope to see once the pandemic eases. Saudi Arabia’s Umrah pilgrimage normally attracts close to 20 million people. This year, only 6,000 will be allowed to take part daily. The Deputy Health Minister tells Becky Anderson the country is “not only reacting to the [COVID-19] situation, but ... While the Asia-Pacific region treads water until a coronavirus vaccine is found, the West’s biggest economies are drowning as a second wave firmly establishes itself in Europe. Tensions in Iraq and Lebanon are reaching fever pitch as the US elections draw near and raise the stakes in the Middle East’s geopolitical battlegrounds. The world can’t afford another Middle East arms race, writes arms-control expert William D. Hartung, amid speculation that the UAE and Bahrain deals to recognize Israel will open the door to more US weapon sales The agreements between the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain on the one hand and Israel on the other, brokered by the Trump administration and signed at the White House on Sept. 15, attempted to normalize the abnormal in spite of their ... The Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, has died at the age of 91 after ruling the Gulf state for 14 years, officials announced. CNN’s Ben Wedeman reports. New diplomatic relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates are having a ripple effect on life and trade in the Middle East. CNN’s John Defterios speaks with Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem, chairman of logistics company DP World about the ... CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh takes a rare look inside Syria’s Al-Hol camp and the conditions of the women and children living there. The moment the pens went to paper to sign the Abraham Accords, normalizing relations between two Sunni-led Gulf Arab nations and the Jewish State while the Palestinians seethed off stage, Joe Biden must have pumped his fist in triumph. Mina Al-Oraibi, the Editor in Chief of the UAE’s “The National” newspaper, and Fareed weigh in on what the future holds for Israeli-Arab relations. President Trump and Israel’s Benjamin Netanyahu will join the UAE and Bahrain officials at the White House to mark historic normalization agreements between Israel and the two Arab countries. Here’s what you need to know. President Donald Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, hailed the US brokered peace treaties between Israel and the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain on Tuesday as the beginning of “a new Middle East” and signaled that the Trump ... President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday joined the foreign ministers of the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain at the White House to mark historic normalization agreements between Israel and the two Arab ... CNN’s Wolf Blitzer talks with senior Trump adviser Jared Kushner about the historic deals signed between Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain at the White House, marking the normalization of relations between the countries President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu joined the foreign ministers of the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain at the White House to mark historic normalization agreements between Israel and the two Arab countries. ... Michael Oren writes that the normalization between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain, as between Israel and other Arab states, can be a rare source of stability. The task now is to build on that progress and ensure a more secure future for both the ... Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivers a speech at the White House on the historic peace accord between Israel, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates. As top officials from Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates prepare to officially recognize Israel in a historic signing ceremony with Israel’s prime minister at the White House, CNN’s Oren Liebermann takes a look back at what led up to this ... An all-star panel weighs in on how the normalization of relations between Israel and some Arab countries could reshape the geopolitics of the Middle East. Arabs have more in common with Israel than many realize, writes Jason Greenblatt, the former US Middle East envoy under President Trump: The entire region suffers under Iran’s sprawling influence and consistent threats to stability and security. President Donald Trump said Friday that Israel and Bahrain have agreed to the “establishment of full diplomatic relations,” marking the second time in a month an Arab Gulf nation has announced new ties with the Jewish state and further ... The White House will host a signing ceremony between the United Arab Emirates and Israel to document a new normalization deal between the two Middle Eastern countries that was brokered by the US, several administration officials said on ... Saudi Arabia drew the wrath of Republicans in Washington this spring by sending an armada of tankers to America to drown US oil makers with cheap crude. Now, the kingdom has reversed course, steering the fewest barrels here since the Reagan era. The first commercial flight from Israel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) took to the skies on Monday, after an agreement to normalize relations between the two countries following a peace deal. White House senior adviser Jared Kushner is traveling to the Middle East this weekend to try to convince multiple Arab leaders to attend a splashy signing ceremony at the White House for the recent normalization deal between the United ... Tension is simmering in the waters of the Eastern Mediterranean as Greece and Turkey, NATO allies but historic rivals, inch toward a possible military confrontation that could end up engulfing the region. A number of top Trump administration officials, including Jared Kushner, will escort Israeli government officials to the United Arab Emirates on the first-ever commercial flight between the two countries, expanding on a commitment by the White House ... From robotic policemen to supercomputers and autonomous vehicles, Dubai is making its case as a leader in the futuristic world of artificial intelligence. When the United Arab Emirated agreed to normalize relations with Israel, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas declared the deal a “betrayal” of Palestinians. Journalist Elliott Gotkine reports. The impending peace agreement between the United Arab Emirates and Israel is a game-changer for the entire Middle East, writes former Israeli Ambassador Michael Oren. Jared Kushner tells Fareed he expects that the U.A.E.’s normalization of relations with Israel will be a turning point for the region. US troops in Syria and their allies exchanged fire with pro-Syrian regime forces in the eastern part of the country. Some are hailing the normalization of ties, but the deal breaks Arab consensus on Palestinian statehood and gives Israel a green light to continue its military rule of Palestinians who don’t have a vote, Yousef Munayyer writes. C.F.R. President Richard Haass & New America CEO Anne-Marie Slaughter look at Israel and U.A.E.’s rapprochement, and Beirut’s bleak prospects. This is not THE Middle East peace deal that has beguiled a generation of American presidents, the one President Donald Trump commissioned his son-in-law and special advisor Jared Kushner to conclude. As the UAE and Israel normalize relations, United Arab Emirates Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash says the Palestinians must “use this opportunity” Senior Advisor to President Trump Jared Kushner tells Amanpour about what the peace deal between the UAE and Israel means for the Middle-East and for Palestinians. The UAE–Israel announcement reflects a “rare coincidence of interests,” Aaron David Miller writes Israel says it will ​temporarily “suspend​” plans to annex the West Bank, as part of a new peace deal with the United Arab Emirates. Israel and the United Arab Emirates have agreed to normalize relations, US President Donald Trump announced Thursday. Several cities in the Middle East sweltered in temperatures of up to 51C (123F) this week, some of the hottest temperatures on record, amid the coronavirus pandemic and the upcoming Muslim celebration of Eid-al-Adha. Coronavirus is surging in some of the most populous nations in the Middle East and North Africa, with reported cases hitting record highs in recent weeks. As Lebanon entered a Covid-induced lockdown earlier this year, the destruction of the middle class remained largely out of sight, but now there’s no escaping the dystopian scenes of desperation. Jewish Currents’ Peter Beinart lays out his novel idea for Middle East peace after losing faith that a two-state solution is still achievable. A prominent Iraqi expert on jihadi groups in the Middle East, including ISIS, was shot dead by unknown gunmen late Monday in front of his home in central Baghdad, media director of the Iraqi Ministry of Interior, Major General Saad Maan, told CNN. The death of 28-year-old Ahmad Erekat at a checkpoint east of Jerusalem on Tuesday has thrown into sharp relief once again the bitter divisions and lack of trust between Israelis and Palestinians. Police video of the incident released a day later appears ... Palestinian human rights lawyer Diana Buttu says if Israel annexes West Bank territory, it is breaking international law and must be held accountable. Former Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni warns that if Israel annexes Palestinian territory unilaterally, it’s giving up hope for peace in the future. A dry air mass from the Sahara is moving over the Gulf Coast this morning but is it thick enough to inhibit the humidity and rainfall in the Southeast?  CNN Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri has the forecast. Today areas along the Gulf Coast into the deep South will see storms and heavy rain which could lead to flash flooding.   CNN Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri has the details of what areas will be impacted the most. Robert Satloff writes that Israel’s plans to annex West Bank territory threatens to trigger a severe worsening of tensions with Palestinians, a suspension of its peace treaty with Jordan, and an end to the Jewish state’s incremental normalization with ... President Donald Trump’s reaction to the demands of American demonstrators in the wake of the killing of George Floyd is straight out of the playbook of Middle Eastern autocrats. And his actions over the last week have given a carte blanche to ... The United Arab Emirates is embracing nuclear power as a major source of its energy, at a time when several countries are moving away from it. CNN’s John Defterios reports on the strategy to diversify. Saudi Arabia is pledging to make even deeper cuts to its oil production as the kingdom scrambles to revive the crude market it helped crash. CNN’s Oren Liebermann travels to the predominantly Arab town of Kafr Qara, which has the highest number of doctors per capita anywhere in Israel, to learn more about the role of Israel’s Arab doctors in wider society. Islamic holy sites, including Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia and Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, will be empty during Ramadan after authorities advised worshipers to pray at home. CNN’s Sam Kiley reports from the United Arab Emirates. The Saudi-led coalition fighting Houthi rebels in Yemen has declared a two-week ceasefire in a bid to stem the spread of the coronavirus in the war-torn country, according to state-run Saudi Press Agency (SPA). The UAE has conducted over 220,000 Covid-19 tests, according to the country’s Ministry of Health and Prevention. It is also the fifth country in the world to set up drive-through testing. CNN’s Sam Kiley reports. Curfews and lockdowns are in effect on hundreds of millions of people in the Middle East, but how effective are they in the fight against coronavirus? When Saudi Arabia, the OPEC’s de facto leader and most influential member, decided to  adopt a new policy to maximize production levels, oil prices crashed — posting their biggest slide since the Gulf war in 1991. CNN’s John Defterios breaks down how the Unites States, Russia and Saudi Arabia are dealing with the collapse of oil prices. Dubai-based Anghami is the leading music streaming app in the Middle East and North Africa. Ettab Hadithy and her two sons have lived in Idlib, Syria, for their entire lives. As the conflict is about to enter its 10th year, Ettab reflects on witnessing how the fighting has shattered lives, destroyed cities and shown the horrors of unending warfare. Saudi Arabia has abandoned efforts to support crude prices and is now preparing to flood global markets with huge volumes of cheap oil, a stunning shift in strategy that has pushed oil futures into a dramatic tailspin and set the stage for a battle royale ... Oil prices are falling again Wednesday after Saudi Arabia doubled-down on its threat to flood the world with millions more barrels of crude despite the coronavirus shock to global energy demand. Oil prices suffered an historic collapse after Saudi Arabia shocked the market by launching a price war against onetime ally Russia. CNN’s John Defterios reports. President Donald Trump’s former special envoy for the Middle East, Jason Greenblatt, says the administration’s peace plan is not perfect from the Palestinian or Israeli standpoint, but is the most feasible and forward-looking possible after years of ... Johns Hopkins Professor Vali Nasr and The New Yorker journalist Susan Glasser tell Amanpour US foreign policy in the Middle East is “short-sighted.” Turkey and Russia announced a ceasefire in Idlib, Syria’s last opposition enclave on Thursday, agreeing to establish a security corridor with joint patrols. In 1994, King Hussein of Jordan and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin signed a declaration that both men hoped would lay the foundation for peace between their countries, and the wider region. Twenty-five years on, Jordan’s Prime Minister now ... Prime Minister Omar Razzaz tells Becky Anderson Jordan’s peace treaty with Israel can go into “deep freeze mode” if Israel annexes the Jordan Valley and parts of the West Bank. Tensions have escalated after dozens of Turkish soldiers were killed in Syria’s Idlib province. Fatigue with the country’s endless conflict can’t hide the enormity of this moment. It’s freezing cold and the kids don’t have proper shoes, but the elderly Samar couldn’t risk it. Overnight, the bombings got too close. Bashar al-Assad’s regime, backed by Russia, has intensified its military campaign across Idlib, Syria’s last rebel-held territory. Since December 2019, the fighting has forced 850,000 civilians to flee. CNN’s Arwa Damon is the only western journalist ... Kim Ghattas, a veteran Middle East reporter, tells Fareed the Middle East wasn’t always as torn as it is today. Syria’s curse, as its conflict rumbles slowly towards its first decade, has always been how new forces enter the war just when it seems that exhaustion might slow everyone down. UN Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator for the Syria Crisis Mark Cutts says the massive humanitarian crisis facing Idlib, Syria, is unlike anything they have seen during the nine years of this war. NRC Secretary-General Jan Egeland tells Amanpour the Russian, Iranian and Syrian governments must stop their onslaught in Idlib, now a “gigantic refugee camp.” Chief negotiator for the Palestinians, Saeb Erakat discusses with Fareed the Trump administration’s peace plan for the Middle East. Erakat says the idea that this is the first time Palestinians are offered a chance for prosperity and to be independent is ... A plane carrying 172 passengers was forced to make an emergency landing on Thursday at a Russian base in Syria to avoid coming under Syrian artillery fire, the Russian Defense Ministry says. Twelve Israeli soldiers were injured in a ramming attack in Jerusalem early Thursday morning carried out by a Palestinian assailant, according to a spokesman for the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), as tensions rise across the region. Three Palestinians were killed in clashes in the West Bank and 12 Israeli soldiers were injured in a ramming attack in Jerusalem as tensions rise across the region following the release of the Trump administration’s Mideast plan. CNN’s Oren Liebermann ... Palestinians have pronounced Trump’s Mideast plan “dead on arrival” and are refusing to even entertain it. But their leadership appears to be struggling with what to do next. President Donald Trump’s senior adviser Jared Kushner told CNN that if Palestinians can’t meet certain conditions under the administration’s Middle East plan, then he doesn’t believe Israel should take “the risk to recognize them as a state.” Senior Advisor to the President Jared Kushner tells Fareed his peace plan will give Palestinians their own state… if they meet certain standards Mustafa Barghouti writes that the Trump’s proposed Israel-Palestine deal violates international law, ends any possibility for an independent, sovereign Palestine and would enforce apartheid-like conditions on Palestinians. Aaron David Miller writes that having helped to draft his fair share of Arab-Israeli peace plans, many of which were unsuccessful, the long awaited Trump proposal leaves a universe of things to be desired. In one sense it represents a terminal case ... President Donald Trump’s senior adviser describes the administration’s peace plan and says it will offer key benefits to both Israelis and Palestinians. Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was in no doubt. January 28, 2020, would be as historic an occasion as May 14, 1948, the day Israel declared independence and was recognized as a state by then-US President Harry Truman. President Trump’s newly unveiled Middle East plan proposes “no more than an apartheid system,” Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh tells CNN’s Christiane Amanpour. President Donald Trump proposed a Middle East plan that he claimed was a “realistic two-state solution” but caters to nearly every major Israeli demand and was immediately rejected by Palestinians. CNN’s Oren Liebermann reports from ... Palestinian ambassador to the UK Husam Zomlot slammed the plan President Trump unveiled for the Middle East during an interview with CNN’s Becky Anderson, saying the President “killed the prospects of a negotiated two-state solution.” President Donald Trump on Tuesday proposed a Middle East plan that he claimed was a “realistic two-state solution” but caters to nearly every major Israeli demand and was immediately rejected by Palestinians. Senior White House adviser Jared Kushner made the case for President Donald Trump’s Middle East plan Tuesday, praising the relationship his father-in-law has with Israel and admonishing Palestinians not to blow their “big opportunity.” CNN’s Christiane Amanpour talks to President Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner about the President’s Middle East plan. Saudi Arabia doesn’t want US troops to leave Iraq and fears that a withdrawal could make the Middle East less safe, the country’s Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud told CNN on Monday. CNN’s International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson sits down with Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Faisal bin Farhan al-Saud. President Donald Trump plans to announce the administration’s Middle East plan Tuesday at the White House alongside Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Filmmaker Bernard-Henri Lévy presents Fareed with the case for why the West must support its allies in the Middle East. U.N. Special Representative in Libya, Ghassan Salame speaks to Becky Anderson about the conflict in Libya, and expresses hope for a forthcoming end in sight. At least 80 Yemeni soldiers attending prayers at a mosque were killed and 130 others injured in ballistic missile and drone attacks by Iran-backed Houthi rebels, the UN Special Envoy for Yemen reported Sunday. Dubai’s exclave of Hatta is home to the ecologically diverse Hatta Mountain Conservation Reserve. At least 15 people were killed and 60 injured in airstrikes on Wednesday in the last rebel held area in northwest Syria, according to activists on the ground and the volunteer rescue group known as the White Helmets. At least 77 people have been killed and 94 injured in northeast Pakistan after a series of avalanches destroyed and buried houses. At least 71 people have been killed and dozens more injured in northeast Pakistan after a series of avalanches destroyed and buried houses. The avalanches were triggered by heavy snowfall in the Neelum Valley, in Pakistan-administered Kashmir, ... Tensions in the Middle East continue after the Iranian president admitted “human error” was to blame for last week’s plane crash. Follow here for the latest. Iran scholar Mohammad Ali Shabani says the Iranian regime and President Trump share a common goal when it comes to US troop withdrawal in the Middle East. Nader Hashemi of the Uni. of Denver discusses tensions in Iran following Tehran’s admission that it accidentally shot down a Ukrainian airline. Russia calls the Soleimani killing an alarming gross violation of law, and offers condolences to Iran. What does the killing mean for Russia and Iran? This new decade’s consequential first weeks began with the United States openly targeting and killing a foreign military leader for the first time since World War II. They ended with the tragic, unintended cost of conflict – Iran admitting it mistakenly shot ... The US is sending thousands of additional troops to the Middle East as tensions grow following the killing of Iran’s top general. Follow here for the latest news. Iran has a long memory, a history of retaliation - and often uses proxies to do it. Brian Todd reports. Iraqi-British Journalist Mina Al-Oraibi digs into what Iran-U.S. tensions could mean for neighboring countries in the Middle East. Shoppers throng the open-air markets in central Baghdad, rummaging through stalls packed with fresh produce and spices. After decades of an enduring cycle of violence, Iraqis are hardened to conflict. But many say they have little vested interest in the latest tit-for-tat between the US and Iran. CNN’s Jomana Karadsheh reports from Baghdad. Two rockets landed inside the heavily fortified Green Zone in Baghdad, home of the US Embassy in Iraq, on Wednesday afternoon, according to the Iraqi military. CNN’s Clarissa Ward reports. The US-led coalition to fight ISIS confirmed small rockets landed near the the heavily fortified Green Zone in Baghdad on Wednesday afternoon without causing any damage to coalition troops or facilities. President Donald Trump declared Wednesday that the United States no longer needs to rely on the Middle East for oil. Trump 2020 Adviser David Urban tells Amanpour that the President will call on allies to take a more dominant role in the Middle East. Rising tensions in the Middle East have prompted international safety warnings for tourists and other travelers heading to prime tourism destinations such as United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Turkey. Major international airlines such as Lufthansa, Singapore Airlines and EVA Air have begun diverting flights from Iranian airspace, after Iran fired more than a dozen missiles at US forces based in Iraq. An undated video released by Iran’s semi-official news agency shows Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei praising the missile attacks on a Iraqi base that is home to US troops. US forces and air-defense missile batteries across the Middle East were placed on high alert overnight Monday to possibly shoot down Iranian drones as intelligence mounted about a threat of an imminent attack against US targets, two US officials ... Former Saudi Ambassador to the United States Turki Al-Faisal tells Christiane Amanpour “the Kingdom does not want more conflict in the area.” US forces and air-defense missile batteries across the Middle East were placed on high alert to possibly shoot down Iranian drones as intelligence mounted about a threat of an imminent attack against US targets, two US officials tell CNN. Barbara ... A major conflict between the US and Iran could have dire consequences for the Philippines because thousands of Filipino overseas workers in the Middle East send money home in the form of remittances. Located thousands of feet up in the Central Asian mountains, Bishkek is not usually considered a place where international policy is made. Even before any retaliation from Iran against the US for its killing of top general Qasem Soleimani, the backlash from the Trump administration’s Middle East policy is clear, present and dangerous. While denounced by many as a dangerous escalation of tensions that could lead to war, the killing of Iran’s Quds Force commander Qasem Soleimani was welcomed in Israel and throughout the Middle East, writes Michael Oren. Iran has yet to loudly, publicly and violently respond to the US killing of its top general attack last week. But that may be cause for greater concern for the US, not relief. Oil prices have jumped higher after a US strike killed Qasem Soleimani, a top Iranian commander, raising tensions in the Middle East. But gasoline prices have barely budged for drivers in the United States. CNN’s Barbara Starr explains what role the 3,000 additional troops being deployed to the Middle East will serve. In Istanbul, Jasmine El-Gamal says “Twitter war” is “the wrong way to mitigate any crisis.” In Beirut, Kim Ghattas says “it is very important to look at all sides of a story and that’s why it is important to speak to experts in the region.” Jason Rezaian also ... Tensions remain high in the Middle East as thousands in Baghdad and elsewhere in Iraq mourn the death of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani. CNN’s Arwa Damon reports. The US is sending thousands of additional troops to the Middle East as tensions grow following the killing of Iran’s top general. The US is deploying thousands of additional troops to the Middle East as tensions with Iran mount following the airstrike that killed Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani. The killing of Qasem Soleimani, one of the most powerful men in Iran, is a dramatic escalation of an already dangerous situation in the Middle East, threatening to trigger violence from the Gulf to the shores of the Mediterranean. Could conflict in the Middle East disrupt global oil supplies? That risk is back in focus after a US strike in Baghdad killed Qasem Soleimani, a top Iranian general. The US military is deploying additional troops to the Middle East following protests at the US embassy in Baghdad. Approximately 750 soldiers have been deployed to the region as a precautionary action, Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said in a ...